====================
AO, an Ethical Book?
====================

.. post:: 2007-06-01
   :author: tychoish

I will admit freely and openly, that I haven't finished reading
*Anti-Oedipus*. In fact, at the beginning of the series I was only on
page 148. I suspect a large part of the passages that I "present" will
be from where ever I happen to be in the book, (likely pages 150-200, at
my current rate) but from time to time, I think I'll also pull from the
first 150 pages if something strikes my fancy. All this by way of saying
that this week's passages will come, not from Deleuze, but from
Foucault's preface to the book. He summarizes Delueze and Guatteri's
project:

"How do we rid our speech and our acts, our hearts and our
pleasures, of fascism? How do we ferret out the fascism that is
ingrained in our behavior? The Christian moralists sought out the
traces of the flesh lodged deep within the soul. Deleuze and
Guattari, for their part, pursue the slightest traces of fascism in
the Body."

I have to say that I think this is why I like this book so much. Rather
than say "fascism" [1]_ is all in the individual and/or "collective"
"unconscious," "soul," or in the historical moment, the statement that
fascism is "in" our "behavior," "speech" and "acts," I think makes a
great deal of sense. This makes it at least vaguely observable [2]_, and
it means that we can take what they say about "fascism," and apply it to
other features of our actions, behaviors, beliefs, and speech. While I
think leads to all sorts of other problems, like "are all
cultural/social constructions and conventions then fascist?," and the
more basic issue that fascism is a rather unspecfic and imprecise term
that I think could get in the way of the text's ability to be applied
more widely. So while this is, very much a book about fascism, I'm
finding it helpful to ignore "the fascist" part of statement, and
instead think of "it," as "culture," and "society," because this seems
to both be more widely useful. Also, the body of research on culture and
society is I think more accessible and wide than the body of research on
"fascism," however variously interpreted.

In a related point, I'm really drawn to theories of embodiment, and I
like the way that they, both in Foucault's estimation in the preface,
and through what I've read, continually ground their work in an
understanding and acknowledgment of the body and material reality (such
as it is.) The sort of endless metaphysical crap [3]_ for the sake of
metaphysical crap is irksome, and not incredibly productive in the
application. Having said that, D&G spend a lot of time doing what can
only be described as the metaphysics of the body, in attempt to
synthesize psychoanalysis and materialism, and that can be hard to take.
But in all the attempt to locate all these theories in the context of
the body is, I think productive.

Later, Foucault speaks of the book as a kind of "manual" for
anti-oedipal "non-facist" living, and I think that I'll likely return to
his tenets in time, but the principal that strikes me as the most
interesting and important at the moment reads: > "Withdraw allegiance
from the old categories of the Negative (law, limit, castration, lack
lacuna), which Western thought has so long held sacred as a form of
power and an access to reality. Prefer what is positive and multiple,
difference over uniformity, flows over unities, mobile arrangements over
systems. Believe that what is productive is not sedentary but nomadic."

As an ethical statement, I think this is one of the more important ones.
I've been known to complain a great deal about "positive
psychology," [4]_ and I think there are ways that this "ethical"
statement mirrors that "movement," but I think that it also goes
further, to explore diversity, difference, and the ways that we (as
individuals and groups) change. I think that's a really productive goal
and point, and reading the book with this in mind I think makes it a
more productive enterprise. Furthermore, the edict to think about
diversity and change, rather than conformity and certain truth, I think
has productive implications in other debates: in favor of publishing
null-hypothsis data, and in-favor of qualitative and grounded theory
approaches to research.

In conclusion I have to say that I think that Foucault's preface is
really interesting, because we are able to see a side of Foucault
(almost certainly late in his career,) where he looks a lot more like a
philosopher and an intellectual historian than any of the other fields
that he's sometimes associated with (eg. history, psychology, sociology
etc.). It's also a really clever bit to read, and particularly going
back and reading over the preface, I'm struck with how well it
encapsulates and frames the book. Because my root [5]_ to this theory is
through women's studies and queer theory, I've been consistently more
exposed to Foucault, so the relationship and dynamic between
Deleuze--who I find inspiring, in a way that Foucault never is--and
Foucault has always been intriguing.

Anyway, that's all I have space for this time, I look forward to hearing
from you [6]_ soon and I'll pick something cool for next week, I
promise.

Cheers, tycho

.. [1] The book jacket refers to fascism as "the desire to be led," and
   while I think I would take issue with this definition a little bit I
   do like the way that the book can be read--and often is, because of
   Foucualt in part--as an ethical text, in a very strange sort of way.
   Having said that, this is the book jacket, and I think we could
   generate a very workable but less pithy definition, should we want
   to).

.. [2] I had a professor who would often claim that the best part of any
   great theory (Freud, g-d, etc.) is the invisible part. It's good that
   D&G seem to avoid this as much as possible.

.. [3] A technical term, I assure you.

.. [4] Positive psychology is the field of psychology that says that
   psychology has studied abnormalities and focused on "fixing" negative
   experience (eg. depression, anxiety, etc.) for too long, and that
   instead we should focus on "optimum experience" and "happiness,"
   which is incredibly hard to take, and I don't think it does very much
   to get rid of the "order/disorder" paradigm or any of the other short
   fallings of the field. But that's just me.

.. [5] A reference to "*But I'm a Cheerleader*\ "

.. [6] I've installed, if you haven't noticed, a threaded comments system
   that will let you discuss not simply with my entry but also with each
   other in an organized manner.

