===================
A Cowl--(Knittting)
===================

.. post:: 2008-12-23
   :author: tychoish

So rather than approach my knitting posts for tychoish like a guilty
journal (eg. I haven't knit in a week, but I did yesterday and it's
cool, here's my progress,) I'm going to just talk about projects that
I'm working on and knitting ideas that I have. Because I have a lot of
them, and I think maybe approaching knitting topics in a more granular
way might be fun. And it'll give all the techie folks a sense of how all
my--rapidly decreasing--knitting readership feel most of the time.

Lets start with the yarn. I went to the `loopy
ewe <http://www.theloopyewe.com/>`__ last Friday. Actually, I went out
to the same building that the Loopy Ewe is in to help my mother buy a
file cabinet that she found on craig's list that a collapsing financial
services agency was selling. So we stopped by and saw Sheri and Donna
and Stacy, and I bought some fiber and a skein of yarn. The fiber is
squirreled away in the fiber stash, but I have a picture to show you:

It's Noro Silk Garden Sock yarn. Sorry for the blury picture, I took it
with my new phone. There'll be more pictures in the future, because the
phone can upload things right to flickr. That's a killer feature.
Anyway, knitting...

A word first about the color. There's green in this ball, but its hidden
in the middle. This means that its almost exactly the same color as the
last Noro that I knit with (also silk garden). R got/gave me two skeins
of the worsted variant (when that's all there was) and I made a scarf
that I still have and wear. Anyway, I am nothing if not consistent and
predictable.

So it's sock yarn, which is to say, that unlike most Noro it's pretty
fine and manageable. At some point in the past few years I've gotten to
a point where I don't really like to knit with thick yarn. My loss I
suppose.

Anyway, while some people, including `Joe <http://www.queerjoe.com>`__
have reported that it makes passable socks, I don't think that I'm going
to make socks with this. For starters I don't really like to wear thin
wool socks, let alone make them. And what's more I'm unconvinced that
the singles structure of this yarn would hold up for socks. You may have
had different experiences, but I've made up my mind.

I'm thinking that I'm going to make a cowl with this. My mother has made
a couple of these this winter so far, and I really like what she's done,
so I'm going to attempt to replicate what she's done in a way that is a
bit more boy-like. Or at least, isn't lacy. I can deal with something
that's not very boy-like if I'm warm, but the lace thing never really
appealed. Also I remember really liking the shape of the `Ice
Queen <http://www.knitty.com/ISSUEwinter07/PATTicequeen.html>`__ from
last years knitty. It's a cowl (which is to say a tube) but it flares
out at one end to cover the back of the neck a bit better particularly
if it's also pulled over the ears. Brilliant if you ask me. Also, even
if you omit the beads and the lace (or just minimize the lace) I don't
think that it would be good for me. Even if I like the idea.

The specifics? Nothing too concrete, but I'm thinking entrelac, with the
same sort of tappered look. I'd start at the small end and work better
near the end. Thats probably not the best way to make use of the yarn,
but I think figuring out the pattern will be easier if it grows rather
than shrinks.

I'll start with a few rows of rolled reverse stocking stitch and then
just play it by ear. Probably just knit 10-13ish inches at the smaller
size (21/22 inches around) and then increase over several "courses" of
enterlac slowly so that it flares *just right*. Actually as I write
this, I've convinced myself that starting at the small end is very much
the *wrong way todo this.*

Am I crazy? Probably. I'm going to try and get a few other projects more
underway and finished before I give this a go. Knitters, you have any
thoughts on this? Talk to you soon!

