========================
A Letter from the Editor
========================

.. post:: 2007-05-21
   :author: tychoish

Hello everyone, I know that this is supposed to be the "Meta" Series for
*Station Keeping* where I talk about my progress on the station keeping
project and my thoughts about the prospect of blog fiction, and the
intersection of storytelling and blogging. I have, however, begun to
view this Monday entry, as a sort of "editor's notes," section like you
might find on the inside of a magazine, and I think it's a nifty way to
start off a week and a Monday [1]_. So here I am.

Wither Station Keeping
----------------------

I actually have news of *Station Keeping*: I wrote another installment,
and while it isn't stunning prose, I think it helps establish a few
characters, and is by far better than the other two installments that
I've written so far. It's nice to know that with a little practice I can
get back into the fiction writing mode: it stretches muscles that I'd
almost forgotten that I had. These installments are necessary background
and serve to establish characters, and the situation that our story is
set in. They're pretty standard fiction, and while I like them, they're
not "short stories" in any normal definition of the term. I have three
more that I want to lay out at some point, but for the next little bit
I'm going to be working on some funky not very plot(ting)posts, and a
little bit of character documentation for internal use.

I realized, this week, that I do a great deal of character development
in my mind, and sort of expect the other writers to be able to pick up
on this. Thankfully they can't read my mind (there are dark corners that
no one needs to see), but this means that I have some writing to do. We
also sectioned off the wiki, so I hope that we can use this as a place
to develop the story a little more. Still looking for 4 writers, at
least, but the more content I/we are able to write, the greater our
overall success. I hope. Stay tuned.

This week, on TealArt
---------------------

I have some great content this week for you. Including free instructions
for designing your own knitted sweater (brain power not-included), also
now that the hypertext series has formally wrapped we'll move on to our
new series. I wrote another one of the friday series' articles today and
it was a *blast*. What is this series you ask? Wait and see. Friday has
typically been the home of a more academic-related essay, and that will
remain for the moment.

So lets recap where we are on TealArt these days: Mondays are for
letters from the editor, and SK, tuesdays are for knitting, Wednesdays
are a grab bag, Thursdays are geeky, and Fridays are for academic stuff.

It's almost like I have a plan, and five blogs. That said, I'm actually
pretty pleased with it all. I'm still trying to figure out how to boost
our readership (other than imploring you to tell your friends, which you
should,) but someday it'll work, in the mean time, I'm having some fun
with the site, I hope you are too.

Stay tuned and be in touch.

Cheers, Sam

.. [1]
We'll ignore for a moment, the fact that I tend to write said entries
on Sunday night.

