=============================
A Lightweight Station Keeping
=============================

.. post:: 2007-04-23
   :author: tychoish

I'm not sure that I have a great deal of news regarding *Station
Keeping* to report to you this fine morning. It warmed significantly in
the last few days in Wisconsin, and it doesn't look like there's going
to be any more snow. Which means we've moved quickly from "frozen
season" to "allergy season." As a result I spent the end of the week and
the weekend in a stupor. I think I hit the peak early/midday on Sunday,
and I'm starting to feel better. The project that seemed to take the
largest hit was SK, alas. In this stupor I did watch a great deal of
television that I'd been saving up for a while, and I got some knitting
done as well.

We have 3 confirmed contributors to this project, and had I been more
cogent this weekend I think that I might have been able to gather a few
more. I also have the first 6 weeks laid out, and I think that perhaps
later in the week I'll start writing the first of those episodes. In
some ways the episode summaries that I wrote were to provide an example
of what I thought an episode could "do," not to mention inspire a stuck
writer, but I've also thought that these were the kind of episodes that
I might write, so unless people volunteer, I'll start with some of the
writing. I also had a discussion with one of the aforementioned writers
regarding the longer-term plot developments that I've archived for the
purpose of shedding some light on my thoughts regarding the longer term
vision of this project.

Because I don't have enough *Station Keeping* content to fill an entire
entry, I think that this is about to turn into a general catchall blog
post. Sooo....

In other news, I've spent a good deal of time these past few days
working on the layout of a book that is going a children's book. I look
forward to being done with this (and also having another something for a
graphic design portfolio, should I ever need to do that). I have
realized as part of this, that if I want to do graphics work (which I
really do pretty irregularly) I totally would need a better computer,
because the ever reliable zoe was totally not up to the task. I think
the postponement of the release of Leopard to October means that I'm
unlikely to begin to seriously hurting for a new computer until at least
then. I think that I'm particularly sensitive to this because I put in
the order for Zoe almost exactly 2 years ago. I think that I'll have to
work on some sort of retrospective to honor the occasion.

I'm an/the outgoing leader, of my campus' queer group. Since a number of
us are leaving/graduating at the end of the year, we started on updating
the groups constitution [1]_, as a way of enhancing the continuity, and
recording the unspoken assumptions that have guided the leaders of the
group for several years. This has incited an unprecedented level of
attention from some folks with heretofore limited involvement in the
operations or activities of the club. And, some decisively undemocratic
tactics, which rob attention that I would like to put towards other
projects including TealArt, knitting-related, and research related. I
think though, to tie this back into something on topic, there's totally
going to be a *SK* episode where Eli or Talia will grind a council of
nebbishen politicians into a very fine powder. Sigh. Take any angry
`twitters <http://www.twitter.com/tychoish/>`__ with a grain of salt
concerning the above.

While I would like to avoid being self congratulatory, I have to say
that I'm very much enjoying the progress that we've been able to
maintain at tealart. It's been a nice compliment to my school work, and
it's nice to have other projects to think about and consider. I think my
misery during my allergies was due in part to the fact that by thursday
I was really caught up with my blog writing, and didn't have much left
to do. So here's to being able to keep it up for a while. I have some
nifty essays planned and prepped for this week. I just got a rather
nifty idea for another series (to follow up the hypertext series), so I
think I'll be sketching that out in the next few days. Anyway, if you're
interested in writing a wednesday essay, talk to me. In the mean time,
stay tuned this week, and I hope that I have something more meaningful
to share with you all about *Station Keeping* in a week.

see you around, tycho

.. [1] This document which is largely irrelevant had gone unused and
   un-updated for 6+ years, which for a residential liberal arts college
   group is an eternity.

