=========================
A Little Slice of Reality
=========================

.. post:: 2004-10-29
   :author: tychoish

I just got back from hearing a presentation by AIDS Activist Bob Bowers,
which was interesting. He was an engaging speaker and he had a good
point and I liked his approach. He's one of the few survivors from the
early eighties, and he reports being in good shape (undetectable viral
load, and a t-cell count that was low a bit low, but still present). He
was very candid and honest, and seemed to put a real face on the
disease. I think it was a good counter to the sort of healthy but
undetectably sick image that we've see far too much of. Nevertheless the
one thing I wanted him to talk about that he didn't (which was what it's
like to be a straight man infected with a "gay" disease), because even
if infection rates are down among gay men and up among heterosexuals
(which I don't buy 100%) HIV is still identified with the gay community.
Part of me wants to own that and make it my struggle, and part of me
likes that it's part of a broader struggle. It's all good. But going to
this talk, allowed me to think about a few other issues.

I just sent out my request for submissions, for the Affinity Story
Project, to seven of my awesome-ist friends, so I should be able to get
eight stories (there's another guy whose email I can't find) (I hope) to
use as examples, or as a sample for publishers. I've decided to call it
**Where We Ought to Be: The Experience of Young Gay Men**, for now. (Yes
it's a reference to "Simple Gifts," the shaker hymn.) That's still a
rough title, so it may shift a little, depending on how post-structural
I'm feeling. This is a really cool thing, and I think it may just work,
which makes it an even cooler thing.

But it strikes me, what I'm really looking for in WWOTB is the pure
essence of what it means to be gay and young in today's world. What
draws us together, what differences make us diverse and unique, how do
we relate to the "gay struggle" of years past. What's it like to wake up
every morning?

I started writing this entry days ago, and I remember being so excited
about it, and now, I haven't a clue as to where I was going. Sorry for
being so distant late. But I have been getting things done. Cheers. --
sam.

