=========
A New Era
=========

.. post:: 2015-02-26
   :author: tychoish
   :location: Cork, Ireland

I'm writing the draft of this from an airplane bound for Ireland for a
week of singing. I travel often: taking weekend jaunts to go to folk
festivals, singing conventions, Morris dancing tours, *and* so forth,
I don't really vacation often. I find travel and managing the
logistics of being in unfamiliar places stressful,
and my idea of a good time has a lot to do with sipping a cup of
coffee [#coffee]_ writing something, and reading a book.

Even though I love spending time at home, it's still important to
(sometimes) leave, try new things, and *exist* somewhere differently
for a little while to reset and reflect a bit. With luck, this
vacation thing will become something I feel comfortable doing, at
least occasionally.

While it certainly wasn't part of the initial plan, it turns out that
this trip is pretty well timed both as denotes a relatively
significant change in my life, and I think is a fitting celebration of
a period of large changes in my life.

----

I am no longer a technical writer. 

When I return to work, I'm joining the core engineering team to work
on build infrastructure and systems projects. I'll be working on
automating our release process, maintaining continuous integration
systems, along with an eclectic set of other projects (some of which
may involve some of technical writing. There are somethings
that you can never escape.) 

The truth though, is that this change has been a long time coming: it
feels pretty natural. I've been working on the documentation build
system for a while, and that's increasingly been the most *fun* part
of my job, so it'll be good to spend more time doing that kind of work
and learn from folks who know more about this kind of thing. Also,
build infrastructure and packaging is incredibly important to how
people use software and how engineers work, which have been consistent
interests of mine for years.

Also, through the last release process, I've also found that I'm
burning out on writing documentation. I can do it, and I'm not bad at
it. After writing, editing and shepherding, more than a million
words of documentation (over several thousand pages,) I sometimes feel
like I've seen it all. I'm interested in seeing the new ideas and
perspectives that will prosper in my absence. I'm also eager to see
how the foundation I've built stands up without me around. *It was
time*.

----

The decision to change jobs happened rather suddenly. While I've built
a narrative (see above), in reality, something clicked and I realized
it was time. Ten days later there was a plan. I said to myself, "*Shit
I thought I was done with major life changes for a while.*"

In the last year, I've bought an apartment and moved to Brooklyn and
reorganized my local family grouping: [#euphemism]_ The good news is
that I find my self in a good state, and 'there's nothing left to
change. [#parts]_

It's been a rocky year, nothing is going to change that. Even if in
retrospect I find myself satisfied with my actions and decisions, and
even if I come out the other end better for my struggle, this is a
year I wouldn't care to repeat.

And even so, I'm excited about the future, about continuing to do
interesting work professionally, about enjoying my city and local
geography, to surround myself with top notch humans, and to make cool
things.

These are early days, and there's work to do. 

----

In the mean time, I'll be over here, enjoying something different for
a little while.

.. [#coffee] Astute readers of the blog will note that I am
   historically a tea drinker. I changed to coffee in late June 2014:
   I discovered that I didn't mind the taste as much as I thought, and
   I like a slightly more potent caffeine delivery system.

.. [#euphemism] Break ups suck, each in its own special fucked up
   way. 

.. [#parts] I've started singing more tenor, I guess, so maybe there's
   more to change after all.
