==============
A Needed Break
==============

.. post:: 2008-10-08
   :author: tychoish

Hey folks,

Just a quick note. I'm going to take a two day break from posting
stories to `Critical Futures <http://criticalfutures.com/>`__ at the end
of this week.

The reasons for this are twofold. First and probably most importantly, I
need a break. In the last three months, I've posted about 28,000 words
of fiction (nearly all of it my own) and even though much of it has been
old content that I've been editing and revising as we go, it still takes
a lot of time. And because, I'm my own boss, and can do these things,
I'm giving myself a break. These are the perks of "going it alone," and
besides, we're only talking about two days.

The second reason is that I've just finished posting the third chapter
of `Knowing Mars <http://criticalfutures.com/projects/knowing-mars/>`__,
the novella that I finished a year ago, and that forms the core of the
first six months--or so-- of Critical Futures posting. Given the
milestone, I think I want to release the first three chapters as PDF
files so that people new to the game can catch up. This will form the
core of next weeks posts, and it'll take a bit of extra time to prep.
This means my break is effectively a little bit longer, you get special
content, and we're all happy.

--------------

I'm starting to talk to other people about writing/sending stories to
Critical Futures, which is something that in my more overwhelmed moments
seems really good. If you have nifty SFnal work that you're tired of
sitting on and want to see what it looks like in "print," consider
submitting. I enjoy doing editorial work (and I'm at least half decent
at it, my alter-ego makes a living doing something similar,) and I think
Critical Futures is the ideal space for some pretty nifty writing. `Get
in touch <http://tychoish.com/contact/>`__ and we can talk in greater
detail about this. I see great things happening.

