================
A Priori Traits?
================

.. post:: 2006-02-27
   :author: tychoish

We were discussing the possibility of heritability and psychological
traits, in a class today, and the professor made the point that "if
people have an implicit theory that, for instance, height and
intelligence are linked, and if this theory persists, psychologists will
observe a correlation between heritability and intelligence."

He went on to say (and I agree with this), "this linkage, though 'real'
isn't because there isn't likely a gene (or genes) that controls
cognitive ability and height, but rather, tall people, if assumed to be
smarter, will be given opportunities that will enable them to develop
into more intelligent people. As a result of this association, (since
height is highly heritable), psychologists will observe a heritable
intelligence link."

Basically that correlations don't prove causation, with the added little
bonus of "teleologies will reify themselves."That sounds great!" I say.
And it does.

So I, being the uppity chap I am, offer the following in some form
(again, this is all hindsight, and I've been trying to clarify it all
day, so it's probably more clear now than it was in the original):

"If there is a widely held belief about a construct, reified by repeated
social behavior (performative acts, if you will), then our definition of
that construct (and our ability to understand/measure/analyize it) is
defined (at least in part) by that belief about the construct."

The response was something to the effect of, "Thats true, but even if
our measurement technique was perfect, and it isn't, we'd still observe
differences, because intelligence--or whatever trait--will *actually*
change because of the social factors." (Again, not doing justice here;
he really is very articulate.)

--------------

And then the class was over.

This represents, I think, why I feel out of place in psychology. There
is an assumption that psychometrically valid constructs and factors,
exist *a priori*. Therefore the problems with psychological
investigation, are a product of the measurement and design, when in fact
*there's no there, there*. That we think if we just work hard enough and
are meticulous enough we'll be able to finally understand the essence of
*construct x, y or z*.

Here's a food example: *It's like studying french-fryness while
encountering only one variety of french fries, without realizing that
*\ either\_ other kinds of french fries *or potatoes* exist\_ and that
frenchy fry cutting factories exist; and then deciding that the only way
to really learn about french-fryness is to encounter as many different
iterations of that only one variety of french fries in as many ways as
possible.

Because that would work so well.

Cheers, Sam

