================
Ad Hoc Solutions
================

.. post:: 2008-03-18
   :author: tychoish

First off, a couple of status reports

*Days on the Waitlist:* **7**

I'm not sure how to report my current state of mind. I've been rejected
from graduate schools long enough and consistently enough that I'm not
incredibly optimistic feeling, even if I'm reasonably optimistic
thinking. It could be over tomorrow, or it could take another four
weeks. I'm working on job search things, which is daunting, but
reassuring. Nothing I'm really looking at would further a career in
academia, which is disappointing. Oh angst.

*Sweater Status:* Binding off the Hem

I'll probably finish all knitting on this sweater this evening, and wait
a few days before I start blocking and sewing things up. Or I could
start on that tomorrow. I'm pretty close, and that feels good. I'm so
close. That's kind of cool.

*New Computer Status* Not ordered!

I got really close to ordering a new computer today: the "T" key on my
laptop broke (it falls off every other time I press t). I think the
problem is with the molding/wear on the catch on the upper right hand
corner of the key. I was overly distraught by this: the "T" key gets a
lot of use, and this basically rendered my computer non-mobile, which is
something that I've come to really enjoy about having a laptop. Well I
discovered a couple of things. First: you can order new keys on ebay for
under ten bucks (which I've done), and secondly that I use the "Q" key
significantly less than the "T" key, so in the mean time I've swapped
them out and that helps some. It's of course not ideal, but it renders
the computer useful for a while longer.

I'm starting to think that I'll just hold off on getting a new computer
till the next rev of the macbook line, because this isn't a necessity,
and I derive some perverse pleasure from keeping this computer working
and running slim. I'll never produce a podcast with it, but, such things
are overrated anyway, and I was a long way off from doing that anyway.
I've probably just jinxed it, so I'm backing up the essentials offsite
as I write this

I installed the normal old Ubuntu (GNOME) on the extra machine and it
looks like it's running well. I haven't put it through the rounds, but
it's in good shape. I need to find a good monitor to use with it (the
one I have is 10 years old and a 15" CRT). I haven't hooked it up to a
network, nor have I tested it with the internet, but I'm optimistic. I
also managed to get through the install routine with the keyboard
accidentally set on a turkish layout, which is a testament to it's ease,
I suspect.

Because I'm still using OS X 10.4 and don't have the nifty new terminal
with tabs, I switched today to
"`iTerm <http://iterm.sourceforge.net/>`__\ " which is a nifty terminal
program that I think will help me stay a little more organized and what
not. I also had a couple of VIM related breakthroughs: I discovered
MacVim a decent (heh!) port/install of VIM to OS X that's more native
and less crappy which gVIM always has been in my estimation. There's a
windows linux program called
"`Cream <http://cream.sourceforge.net/>`__\ " that I've always thought
is pretty nifty, but it really doesn't work at all with OS X (I've
tried. A lot,) but from what I can tell this MacVim does most of the
things that I'd want from cream. I also upgraded the system vim to the
latest version, rather than the 6.2 (or whatever) that OS X seems to
come with (about time). So I think I'm making at least a little progress
in VIM learning.

That's all the geek news that isn't, there hasn't been much else to
report, other than angst and resume writing.

Stay well. That's an order.

Onward and Upward!

