================
Addendum, cosmic
================

.. post:: 2008-01-31
   :author: tychoish

Ok, I have to post this little interstitial post because, mostly there's
this item on my "blogging todo list" that I keep ignoring, that I really
want to mention, and I think if I weren't so damn verbose, I would have
gotten to it at some point in `my last post about cosmic scale
plots <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/cosmic/>`__ and story structure.

I think part of the thing at play, at least for me, is that great big,
cosmic stories, even if they don't take too long to tell are sort of the
stories of my heart. I love these sort of big picture stories, where we
see whole epochs shift, and watch while characters rise and fall.

Think about the epic SF written in response to the cold war that was the
core of the SF canon (and largely still is, though I think their
influence has wained in the last 15 years): Dune, Foundation, Lord of
the Rings, Star Wars, etc.

Anyway. I think another result of being too tuned into the larger story,
to being too enamored of the epic, is that it becomes very very easy to
start your stories too soon. Rather than start at the beginning, as far
as I can tell, it's usually better to start when things start happening.
The space between the provoking instance and the sequence events that
make up the store is part of what creates mystery and intrigue in a
novel. *It seems to me.*

This is of course compounded that novels, when we read them almost
always have a prologue of some sort, and really successful epics often
eventually have prequels. But we'll note a couple of things, 1) These
are written after the original story, 2) they almost always suck,
particularly in comparison to the original story.

Also, if people wrote better hooks, I think I might have an easier time
turning off the internal editor when I'm reading stories for my crit
group. Because I really want to say "just chop off the beginning,
nothing else matters as much." But I don't, and as a result end up
sending fewer critiques.

Not that I'm particularly good at this, yet, but it's all about learning
these things, isn't it?

Onward and Upward!

