======================
adventures in commerce
======================

.. post:: 2009-06-19
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: journal

Because I'm moving soon (eep.) I've realized that we needed to get a new
bed. See my existing bed--now, nearly ten years old--was wedged into the
room in my parents house that it is currently in, with some force, and
we very much doubt that said bed will ever be able to be removed, given
the shape and location of the doorway.

Anyway, so I went to our local furniture store the other day to scope
out and price mattresses and box-springs. This furniture store is this
outlet-like store that's pretty near to where my parents live, and over
the past ten or twelve years we've gotten a fair number of things there,
so much so that there's a sales guy that recognizes my mother and I when
we enter.

So we go in, and I try and make a b-line for the mattress section, when
we were acosted by a *very helpful* sales guy (not our usual victim) and
he hovered around telling us *way* too much about the inner workings of
the mattresses, even after I tried to make it clear that: a) I wasn't
likely to buy the mattress today, b) I just wanted to feel where my
price point was.

--------------

I should interject two things, one that I sleep on my stomach, and two
that I tend to sleep with my feet hanging off the end of the bed.

--------------

So after a while of looking around and hoping that the dude would get
the picture and leave me alone, he finally suggested that I try a
particular bed out.

"Ok," I said, and face planted side ways (so that I was running parallel
to the imaginary headboard) onto a sort of mid-to-high end off-brand
mattress. "Hey," I said, after a moment, "That's pretty good,"

"Uh," he said, "Is that how you usually sleep on beds?"

I was speechless. Not only was he hovering but he was judging me for how
I was laying down on beds. Now to be fair I don't typically lay on beds
cross-ways except for naps when I'm really tired, but still it seemed
out of place, particularly since he'd been so accommodating and
attentive henceforth.

Sigh.

