===========================
Affinity on a Smaller Scale
===========================

.. post:: 2004-10-30
   :author: tychoish

*I'm going to try to write entire entries in one sitting, so they don't
loose coherence after the fourth paragraph. Wish me luck.*

With WWOTB out of my court for a week or more, I'm starting to think of
other "independent" (of school work) projects that I can do. Everyone
I've talked to about WWOTB has been really excited and energetic about
it, which I think, is pretty darn cool. A year ago I might have said,
"now I just hope people follow through," but after so many years of
working for Free-ePress, CollectiveArts, and even to a more limited
extent TealArt, I think I've learned a few things about collaborative
projects and how to organize myself to inspire (if that's the right
word, perhaps encourage) the response that I seek.

But I was thinking, of people I should ask here at Beloit, to contribute
to this project. I sent the initial email out to one guy, and there are
more than that, but I realized that there isn't really any group or way
for the gay men on this campus to connect and or relate with/to each
other. The Alliance (GSA) type organization is mostly female. This is
great, really, but it also doesn't serve me terribly well (not that I'm
going to stop going, I'm just saying). I think this feeling is similar
to the one than Iris felt when she decided to write her book, rather
than just rely on the original Ophelia Speaks collection.

Now of course the logical conclusion to draw from this is that I need to
start some sort of affinity group for gay men on this campus. Now I
really don't want to go through student activities cause that's a pain
in the ass, using The Alliance is probably a good idea, but I think that
carries a lot of bad connotations on campus, and funding something
myself isn't really an option. Ok so having said that, my current
thought it to have some sort of brunch group, but I kind of feel if I
did anything to formal, all I'd get is a bunch of girls. Excluding
people isn't a good idea, but at the same time, if you include straight
guys and girls of any persuasion, then you don't really have an affinity
group now do you?

I think there are at least two major forces pulling on feminist and/or
social justice movements. The first is clearly forming alliances between
affected (or not affected) groups, under the idea that oppression is
shared and that many hands make light work. Then there's the idea that
the affected group *(women, lesbians, male homosexuals, people of color,
people from the non-western world, immigrants, emigrants, transgender
people, transsexual people, teenagers, teenage girls, workers, queer
people, etc.)* need to work together to empower themselves and build a
nurturing community. Affinity builds the foundation for coalition work,
and both are dependent on each other.

So this brings up another interesting theoretical concept for me. The
struggle for change in order to be productive and successful needs to
incorporate movement in at least two disparate aspects. These aspects
are often contradictory, and by focusing on one the activist/theorist
tends to forget the other one, which makes movements hard to manage.
History is rife with examples of this.

In the example above, they are affinity and coalition. At Anytown, they
are conscious and subconscious manifestations of oppression. In
feminism/women's studies programs, they are activism and theory. These
elements need to move together, and that's a huge problem not easily
overcome.

