===================
Against Open Stacks
===================

.. post:: 2010-12-13
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, technology, open-source

I have misgivings about `Open Stack <http://openstack.com/projects/>`__.
Open Stack is an open source "Cloud" or infrastructure/virtualization
platform, that allows providers to create on-demand computing instances,
as if "in the cloud," but running on their own systems. This kind of
thing is generally refereed to as "private clouds," but as all things in
the "cloud space," this is relatively nebulous concept.

To disclose, I am employed by a company that does work in this space,
that *isn't* the company that is responsible for open space. I hope this
provides a special perspective, but I am aware that my judgment is very
likely clouded. As it were.

Let us start from the beginning, and talk generally about what's on the
table here. Recently the technology that allows us to virtualize
multiple instance on a single piece of hardware has gotten a lot more
robust, easy to use, and performant. At the same time, for the most part
the (open source) "industrial-grade" virtualization technology isn't
particularly easy to use or configure. It can be done, of course, but
it's non trivial. These configurations and the automation to glue it all
together--and the quality therein--is how the cloud is able to
differentiate itself.

On some level "the Cloud" as a phenomena is about the complete
conversion of hardware into a commodity. Not only is hardware *cheap*,
but it's so cheap that we can do most hardware in software, The open
sourcing of this "OpenStack" pushes this barrier one step further and
says, that the software is a commodity as well.

It was bound to happen at some point, it's just a curious move and
probably one that's indicative of something else in the works.

The OpenStack phenomena is intensely interesting for a couple of
reasons. First, it has a lot of aspects of some contemporary commercial
uses of open source: the project has one contributor and initial
development grows out of the work of one company that developed the
software for internal use and then said "hrm, I guess we can open source
it." Second, if I'm to understand correctly, OpenStack isn't software
that isn't already open source software (aside from a bunch of glue and
scripts), which is abnormal.

I'm not sure where this leads us, and I've been milling over what this
all means for a while, and have largely ended up here: it's an
interesting move, if incredibly weird and hard to really understand
what's going on.

