=================
Angels in America
=================

.. post:: 2003-07-29
   :author: tychoish

During the Car ride to Pittsburgh PA, I read the script for the first
part of Angels in America, by Tony Kushner. I finished it in one very
difficult sitting, teetering on the very edge of tears the whole time.
When I reached the back cover I realized that I had just finished
reading some of the most amazing prose I'd ever set eyes on, and then
realized that I *had* to get my hands on Part Two.

Angels in America is a play written about the AIDS crisis. As a play
it's really creative, and really takes advantage of the form. All of my
recent exposure to drama has been either to Shakespeare, which is of
course brilliant, but requires a lot of thought and the themes are
simplistic (not that there's a problem with that) but they're also
really obvious and I think that Shakespeare is more about the language
(thus making it more akin to poetry) than it is about what's going on in
the play. Additionally I've been exposed to a very concise survey of the
development of Modern drama including Anouilh, Brecht, Ibsen, Strinberg,
and (T. S.) Eliot.

Brecht and Ibsen, in particular, especially wrote plays that would be
impossible to produce on the scale that the script calls for. There is
too much detail and so much symbolism that is easily missed. But all of
the mentioned authors were guilty of this to some extent. In many ways,
I think that for all their power and skill, the kind of drama that I've
been exposed to recently haven't aged particularly, though I think Ibsen
and Strinberg are most guilty of this.

Angels in America is a completely different sort of play, and I'm
debating weather this difference makes it better or just different, but
in any case let me describe it again. It's set during the onset of the
AIDS epidemic, around a sizeable handful of semi-interconnected
characters. Everyone is affected by AIDS in some how and many of the
characters are gay, and while that's easily the defining characteristic
of the play, I don't think that it's an artifact of Queer Art because
while I think gay audiences will certainly learn and gain a great deal
from reading this play, a certain part of me wants to say that the
intended audience is a mixed bag I feel.

The play also presents AIDS from a perspective that is different than
the usual spin and, and it's a perspective that's I think is often lost.
At least in the material I get day in and day out AIDS seems to neglect
the wasting nature of the disease, and the fact that it doesn't kill
anyone very quick. AIDS is painted as a bad thing, which is appropriate,
but it is all to often presented to impersonally for my tastes. The
disease isn't given a face to often and I think that's a shame. In our
efforts to convince people in the seriousness of the AIDS, we completely
neglect the disease itself. People are seen as being HIV- and people are
seen in the unaffected early stages of the disease, and people are
represented as being dead, but that whole middle section is completely
left out. I can see perfectly reasonable explanations for this, but at
the same time I think in general we lose something by functioning in
this way. In any caseâ€¦

Angels in America completely deglamorizes (as if there was any glamour
in the first place) the entire situation. It shows characters in various
stages of the illness (set in a time frame where without recently
developed treatments) the progression happened more quickly. Thus there
were characters who were only beginning to show signs of the illness,
and there were character who were struggling with more advanced stages
of the disease. We also got to see the impact of AIDS on family members
, and how denial and homophobia was really elemental in promoting the
spread of the disease. This kind of approach, and this kind of treatment
of this particular social issue is, I think really powerful, and I think
this is the kind of light that this epidemic needs to be preserved in.

Beyond the particulars of the social commentary, I liked the fact that
rather than a thematic focus on one of life's more puzzling metaphysical
quandaries, Angels in America focused on an issue that is not only
relevant to our times, but emblematic of the social condition of our
times. From this starting point t is then possible to draw conclusions
about a couple of metaphysical issues, whereas in all of the "great
works" that I'm generalizing against work in reverse order, and require
more interpretive work for less insight, in my opinion.

The unavoidable poignancy of the message and the perspective of the
presentation gives the play purpose and direction, but it's power is
directed from the dramatic technique and storytelling style. More
"traditional" and/or "classic" have a hand full of characters that
interact with each other and contribute to one developing plot. In this
play there are three (or so) situations, each with a couple of
characters. The situations are all connected, though not in a
traditional sense, and the directions for staging and sets indicate a
sparse set, and no blackouts, which makes the production aspect of the
play much more transparent. The traditional school of thought is stage
things so that it looks "real," but that's ultimately a futile goal, so
Kushner (and a lot of other contemporary playwrights) don't even try,
and for some reason I think it works really well.

I think the word on the street is that HBO or some such is going to
produce Angels in America sometime in the near future, and I really hope
that they do a good job of it, and I think they will. I've only read the
first one, but the second play promises to be even better.

