===========
Another One
===========

.. post:: 2008-05-19
   :author: tychoish

Hah. Today is my birthday. I seem to have made it through another year.

As an interesting side point, I think I got through 21 without using the
privilege to buy buy alcohol at all, though I was carded to get into
music venues and the like a few times. Just kinda funny.

It's been a tough year, I'd say on the whole. The graduate school
rejection--to mention nothing of the utterly painful application
process. Some frustrating and long-lived knitting projects. Employment
has been erratic and frustrating. The blog has been really fun, and
while I did get back into writing this year, but I think both suffered
as I was dealing with school crap. Having said that things are starting
to look up.

But the great thing is that things are feeling more and more together.
I've been writing a little, basically whenever I can get a free moment
for the past week. I have a job at least till the end of August, and I
have a long range plan that looks like it might just work. Can't argue
with that.

I think "Onward and Upward!" is particularly fitting in this
circumstance.

--------------

For a long time I've dedicated a certain degree of energy in trying to
looking older, because it's useful, because it's fun to pass, because I
could. I suspect that uncovering all of the reasoning behind that one is
beyond the scope of this entry. In any case.

I've realized, both by watching people out in the world, and by looking
at the mirror, that for the first time in a long time, I basically look
as old as I feel. I think. Actually as I type that I'm a little worried
that I think I'm a bit younger than I am, because when I see people that
I don't know who are probably about my age in their natural habitat, I
almost always feel younger.

In any case, I think it's going to be a good year. It better be.

