==============================================
Another Bright Shiny Morning - Personal Update
==============================================

.. post:: 2003-03-30
   :author: tychoish

As you've seen I finished the book that I've been working on for most of
the time that I've operated this domain. It feels great and I think in
some ways it marks a change in the eras of my life. Henceforth referred
to as BCG and ACG (before and after Circle Games). No, no matter what
anyone says, no matter what anyone thinks I'm a writer. I write, and I
must write; and while you may have believed this before, I may have
doubted it. Now, I don't doubt my writerly existence (ability and skill
are always fair game). With enough work, time and inspiration, I feel
like I can do anything. It may sound kind of hokey and pretentious, but
I ensure that its not.

For the entire length of my recorded presence on line, I've kept my age
fairly secrete. Partially because when I started 4 or so years ago, I
was 13-14 (for those of you who don't feel like doing the math or don't
have enough fingers, that would make me 16â€”17 in three months) and I
wanted to be taken seriously. Four years changes a few things, and I'm
no longer as invested in other people's (virtual) impression of my age.
Before the internet was my primary publication venue, and in order to
reach respectable audiences and gain a reputation, I think I needed to
present myself in a certain way. I never lied, technically, though I
admit I did chose words carefully with the intention of creating an
image that was several years ahead of the current reality. But no
longer. If I want to publish some writing on the internet, people will
either have to accept me in terms of who I am, and on the basis of my
work, or (and this will likely be far more common) I'll be publishing on
TealArt and CollectiveArts, where I'm in control.

I think know would be a good time to explain Chris. He got added to this
effort at some point, but I don't think we ever really explained how we
know each other. 3-4 years ago, we frequented an IRC (internet relay
chat) Channel (#babylon5, and later #babcom2 as well on the Undernet,
for those of you that care). Not that we ever talked about Babylon 5,
really, but we have/had that common connection. Really the best
conversations we had in that channel, or the ones that I really remember
were about American Literature and how much we didn't like it, but it
was bore than just a bitching session, because in retrospect our
arguments were fairly well constructed. Gosh, the things I did/do in my
free time. In any case, we just started talking, and we haven't really
stopped. There's a good deal of variation, but we tend to average 7-15
thousand words of IM transcripts a week. Oh, and he's all of two years
older than me.

Despite the fact that I've known that my family reads this journal, it's
finally starting to sink in and I'm starting to feel watched and hovered
over. I'm trying to ignore this as best I can. So I have a favor to ask
of you three, and anyone else whose still reading: leave comments on the
entries as a way of telling me that you've read the entry and are
interested in what I've said (and want to further a discussion). Being
told "Oh I read your website," by family freaks me out still. Commenting
is really cool, and I'd like you all to add your thoughts. Please?

We interrupt this irregularly scheduled Personal Update to mention that
in case you were wondering, there is some semblance of a coherent point
hidden somewhere in here. Thank You.

There's no really easy way to do this so, I'll try not to flounder
around too much. I'm gay. But if you've spent any time reading this
site, and hadn't guessed that by now, you're not very good at reading
subtly. Not that I've been using this site as the penultimate closet
case weblog, but for any number of reasons it wasn't time to come out
yet, so I didn't. Now, though, I'm as ready as one can get. Which is to
say, not very, but I'd grown to a place where If I didn't come out soon,
I might have completely broken. So time for all the questions I know
you're asking: Yes I'm completely sure, for god only knows what reason,
I doubted and questioned for a year and floundered around a lot, but
after a year of agitation, everything finally settled and it all became
clear. For those of you wondering the order in which I came out to
people, here it is: Tracy, Chris K., Rachel, Molly/Anna S., Alex P.,
Mary, Anna T., Alex S., Eric, Halley, Chris A., and so forth; after a
while it becomes kind of nebulous and hard to track. Yes, I'm the only
out/semi-out guy in my school of 236, and while we have bets on a few
people, we'll just have to wait and see. I'm not dating anyone, even in
the vaguest of definitions, and while I'm open to the prospect in
theory, I realize that it's kind of impractical right now, and
everything's comfortably cool.

It's been said that being gay is hard, that it's a hard life. First of
all, I thank whoever said that for not using the word lifestyle, because
after all diets and life has very little in common. Second of all, I
think the gay part has very little to do with anything. Life isn't easy,
it's not for the faint of heart (bad pun, I know, I know). The only
thing that I know is that I have absolutely no control over being gay,
not that I'd want to. It's part of me, of who I am and I like me just
the way I am. Also, I can tell you that the extra difficulty that being
gay adds to life is virtually non-existent in comparison to being gay
and locked on your ever shrinking closet.

It's a continuing saga, and I think now that I've made this jump; you'll
see a few more things on this subject.

I'm happy, and each time I've come out to someone, after the initial
milliseconds of fear before they respond, I feel as if I've woken up, as
if I'm starting to become hole. Even on a cloudy day, it feels like a
bright shiny morning. That's why it's right, because deep down in my
bones it feels right, it feels like what I need to do, and it feels like
me: I have to trust this, or else I can't really trust anything.

