==================
Another Cup of Tea
==================

.. post:: 2007-12-03
   :author: tychoish

I never know what to call these check-in posts where I'm like "so here's
what I'm working on..." bleh, sorry for the nonsensical titles.

I've been fairly buried in the academic writing and graduate school
application writing. On the plate for tonight, I need to get, probably
about a thousand words on my major paper for the semester, which will
break the back of the draft. My concern is that it has to be *perfect*
by friday afternoon, which is pushing things to the last minute, but on
the account of this paper, that seems reasonable. But I'm not going to
stress to much about this yet, and I'm in good shape. It's just a little
frantic making, I guess.

The blog will understandably be spare in the interim.

In terms of knitting news, I've not been doing very much: I've been
writing with a sweater on my lap and I'll knit a few little row-lets
when ever I need a moment to think or plan for what's next. The gray
sweater is going slowly, I'm working on knitting the shoulder strap, and
it's going swimingly, aside from being kinda fiddly, it's perfect for
this kind of knitting.

Last night while I was listening to something for class I got the
Morocco sweater into shape so that I could knit it in class and this
week in those moments that seem to need knitting. It's going much faster
now, that I've started setting in the sleeves, and it's as engauging as
always. It's kind of amazing how enjoyable I find colorwork, even when
it's devilishly complex like this sweater. I'm looking forward to
casting on something else, but I'm being good and waiting till I have
brain time and a sweater done.

Hope you all are well. Cheers!

Onward and Upward!

