======================
Apple Pie in your Face
======================

.. post:: 2004-05-23
   :author: tychoish

Well, well. I've done the first performance of As American As Apple Pie
and I'm really digging how it went.

It's taught me a bunch about acting and about theater. Before the
performance, I vowed to myself that I would never ever act in a
production again. And then, it happened, and maybe I'll take another
stab at it in a few years. It's been wild and good.

This theater project has been part of the reason I postponed my
birthday. From Wednesday till today, all my thought has been dedicated
to this, and the birthday thing didn't really penetrate at all. People
asked me on Thursday how old I was and I told them seventeen. Now it
kind of is and that's another thing that's exciting.

There are defiantly some things that I'll probably talk about at great
length, but that'll happen after this is all over.

Right now, I'm about to go pass out, but before I do, I would like to
mention two neat things.

I got a real life comment about TealArt from a non-relative. It was
awesome. From an artist nonetheless. This makes me even more
self-conscious about the fact that the default design features a picture
shamelessly stolen from the A&F Quarterly. Not to mention the fact that
I don't really proof read anything I post here, and thus feel the
content is kind of shaky.

The second thing is that the one and only Brad Graham was there, saw me,
said hello, shaked (shook, I know it's shook) my hand. Its weird. I've
been reading Brad's site for years. I found the link on Amy's site, only
to discover that it was only coincidence that we didn't already know
each other.

And having said that, it's still really weird. Now, when meet a fellow
blogger-type, I make a point of communicating with them off the bat, so
that I can become friends with them before I know all their life stories
and then feel like a stalker. I guess that marks the first time I've
ever met a real honest to god blogger-type in person. He was shorter
than I thought he would be, but not that much shorter. I think that can
be owed to the fact that I envision everyone as being my height and he's
about an inch shorter than me. Anyway. I'm babbling, now, so I'll see
you all around.

Peace out. Cheers,

