=======================
Are We Breaking Google?
=======================

.. post:: 2011-06-30
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg

Most of the sites I visit these days are: Wikipedia, Facebook, sites
written by people I've known online since the late 1990s, people who I
met online around 2004, and a few sites that I've learned about through
real life connections, open source, and science fiction writing. That's
about it, it sounds like a lot, and it is, but the collection is pretty
static.

As I was writing about my nascent list of :doc:`technical writing links </technical-writing/links>`, I realized that while I've been
harping on the idea of manually curated links and digital resources for
for a single archives for a couple of years now, I've not really thought
about the use or merits of manually curated links to the internet writ
large.

After all you can find anything you need with
`Google <http://lmgtfy.com/>`__. Right?

I mostly assumed that if I could get people to curate their own content,
"browsing" would become more effective, and maybe Google technology
could adapt to the evolving social practice?

Though the inner workings of Google are opaque, we know that Google
understands the Web by following and indexing the links that *we* create
between pages. If we don't link, Google doesn't learn. Worse, if we let
software create all the links between pages, then Google starts to
break.

Put another way: the real intelligence of Google's index isn't the speed
and optimization of a huge amount of data--that's a cumbersome
engineering problem--but rather *our* intelligence derived from the
links we make. As our linking patterns change, as all roads begin to
lead back to Wikipedia, as everyone tries to "game" Google (at least a
little) the pages that inevitably float to the top are pages that are
built to be indexed the best.

And Google becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy because whatever page we
*do* find out about and create links to are the links that we've found
using Google. We've spent a lot time thinking about what happens if
`google becomes evil <http://craphound.com/scroogled.html>`__, to think
about what happens to us as Google stops providing new and useful
information. We've spent considerably less work considering what happens
when Google becomes useless.

