==============================
Around We Go (spinning report)
==============================

.. post:: 2008-08-04
   :author: tychoish

I spent a lot of my recent Saturday spinning. It's nice to finally have
such a long period of time where I don't have to *do* anything. Here's
what I did:

I finished spinning the shetland roving that I've been working on for a
couple of months. This was the first big batch of wool that I bought
after my return to spinning this spring. I got 2 pounds (which is my
standard order size) of a lovely grey and I spun a DK-ish weight 3-ply
yarn.

Since I've gotten back to spinning I've been spinning a lot of 3 ply.
Since I intended to knit from my handspun stash in the coming months,
and I like the way that 3-ply comes out, I feel like it's worth the
extra effort. I'm also trying to spin more of the kinds of yarn that I'm
likely to knit with, that is yarn in the neighborhood of worsted-weight
yarn. While I knit a lot at finer gauges, I often have pretty good
reason to use machined yarns for those tasks, but I think having a stash
of heavier handspun yarns is sort of the way to go.

I also started and spun the first skein of my next spinning project. I
bought some Corriedale-Cross (2 lbs) at the `Yarn
Barn <http://www.yarnbarn-ks.com/>`__ in April, and I'm spinning that
into a more worsted 3ply. It's a harder wearing wool, but there isn't a
lot of crimp and it's not particularly rough. It has the other advantage
of being incredibly inexpensive, considering how nice it is and given my
intentions for this project (keep reading) it's perfect.

I want to knit a guernsey-style sweater (thought it might have more
cable work, if I get intense about it,) and I want to have a sort of
firmly spun, rugged wool for this sweater, and I'm afraid that merino
would be too soft. I also have two pounds of merino for the *next*
project. More on that as it develops. But yes, spinning continues apace!

Also, I think that it's going to work out that I'm going to be spending
the fall knitting sleeves to sweaters again. These things happen. But
the next sweater that I cast on will probably be something from my
handspun. Incidentally, I'm predict a cable phase soon.

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!

