====================
As You Mean to Go On
====================

.. post:: 2014-11-24
   :author: tychoish
   :category: announcements
   :tags: meta, journal
   :location: Brooklyn

I've not posted for a long time. A lot of things have changed since I
last wrote, and this post is probably not the best place to recount
all of them. Indeed in most respects many things haven't changed. Some
have...

I'm still living in New York, but I bought a coop in Brooklyn and
moved, which has been great. I'm surprised at how quickly I feel at
home and rooted. The sequence of changes in my life that brought me
there are simple, really, but difficult to make sense of. I was there
throughout the entire process and my understanding continues to
develop. The fact that I am aware of this development is both a great
comfort and has made it difficult to write about the things going on
in my life with confidence.

I replaced my tea habit with a coffee habit. I still attend yoga
classes regularly, and sing Sacred Harp (and sometimes other shaped
notes). I Morris dance with the Bowery Boys, the Men's team in New
York City, and continue to dance with Braintrust Morris, an *kind of
butch* Morris team with a spiritual center in the Midwest.


I'm still working on the same kinds of developer documentation, build
systems, and software development projects for the same company as
before. I still think open source software is important, and am really
interested in helping people develop technological literacy and
understanding as well as improving developer infrastructure. I use
Linux extensively, write a lot of Python, tinker with Go and Common
Lisp, and live and breathe in Emacs.

Life is good. Life is difficult. Life is.

I look forward to sharing it with you.

-----

So the blog looks different. I changed some things:

I switched from using `ikiwiki <http://ikiwiki.info>`_ to using
`Sphinx <http://sphinx-doc.org>`_ and an extension called `ablog
<http://ablog.readthedocs.org/>`_. This is because: I wanted to use
a system that I was familiar with and could hack on (that's Sphinx,
which is the core of the tool chain I use at work.) Also, I wanted
to use reStructuredText, which I prefer.

Ikiwiki is great software, and I quite enjoy it's architecture and
use. The problem is that it's not in particularly active development,
the code base is in Perl (which I don't know, and except for ikiwiki,
have no reason to learn,) the project has probably peaked in terms of
its adoption curve, and my goals and user story aren't totally inline
it's goals and user stories.

Sphinx isn't totally right for a blogging engine either, but it's
solid, and I am actively developing and maintaining tools around
Sphinx. Indeed, I was able to make some small changes in ablog that
shaved about a third of the time off of the total build time.

It took a lot of time to convert all the posts to the new format, but
now that everything is in order and the tools are usable its time to
start writing again.

-----

It's good to be home.
