==========
Bad Queers
==========

.. post:: 2007-11-10
   :author: tychoish

I twittered something about how Ellen DeGeneres filmed her show despite
the fact that the WGA is on strike, after only canceling one taping. I
ended this twitter with the phrase "bad queer."

A little background:

My second semester in college I took a class on race and sexuality that
some of you might remember quite well. Anyway, it was an english/women's
studies class and we met in a class room in the geology building. This
lead to far too many jokes about rock throwing, but at some point the
prof talked about a class that she took it grad school called "bad
queers" that was a night class that met in some distant corner of campus
on the top floor of a building that was otherwise unused. It was funny,
or at least funnier than what we were studying at the time.

The idea of a class about "bad queers" was interesting, so it was an
ongoing joke between some of us, in part because we never got a good
explanation of what the class would actually be about, or more
importantly what could you spend an entire semester talking about on the
subject.

I always took the opinion that it was to be a class about false (queer)
consciousness, but I'm not sure that was everyone's opinion, nor do I
know that that's accurate. I think roommate H. [1]_ took the side that
the class was more narrowly about the element of the queer community
that makes the conservative argument that queer people are *just the
same as* straight people save homosexuality, this argues against
diversity, and for greater social strictures, and that was appropriately
enough, to our minds "bad."

Anyway, I bring this up, only because I was writing a paper this weekend
about sexuality and aging for my adulthood and aging class that I'm
taking now (more on that in another post, possibly) and I found myself
putting a small rant about a certain fairly well known "bad queer" (in
the second, narrower sense.) And while I'm not sure that it's completely
crucial to my argument, and thus is now a footnote, it sort of felt
good.

But I suppose more importantly, it's a fun exercise, if not entirely
productive. Thoughts on bad queers, anyone?

.. [1] Ironically, H. wasn't in the class were this whole thing got started,
   opting rather to take a class on Chaucer at the same time. Also,
   apologies if I get this wrong.
