====================
Bandwagon and Habits
====================

.. post:: 2008-12-02
   :author: tychoish

Ok, so I know it isn't November anymore, and I should shut up about
writing already, but it's a good change of pace, and I have one little
point to make/explore that makes sense to talk about post-nano. It's
about the habit of writing. And I think it can be applied to all sorts
of creative work.

A lot of people think that NaNo is all about "a big push," and getting
past the internal editor and so forth, but even more importantly it
teaches a valuable lesson about the power of momentum. The begging is
the hardest part. Writing the first 10-20 thousand words, is really hard
work and takes time to get used to the characters and the situations and
what it takes to sit down *every* damn day and write *a lot* of fiction.
Once you learn what it feels like, once you're situated, things get
easier. It's easier to figure out what's going to happen next, and it's
easier to sit down and *write*.

Ultimately, knowing how to push yourself and get in the habit is the
best part of NaNo, and other than the rhetorical objectives, it's
probably my only real "writing hack" and gives me the feeling that means
that I say "I'm a writer" when someone asks me what I do.

While I don't want to endorse procrastination, I'm of the opinion that
the "writing habit" is something that needs a lot of nurturing and help.
Having something like a blog that can help you "warm up," or a journal,
or a lively email correspondence, can sometimes help get things moving,
and though it seems counter productive really help fill in the gaps
between larger projects. There's such thing as "too much" odds and ends
writing, but if you can get your mind moving and used to writing two to
three thousand words a day, it becomes easier and easer for a greater
and greater portion of these words to end up being on a fiction project.

A while back my motto was that the key to creative success, if it
exists, lays somewhere in the confluence of "persistence" and
"experimentation." Basically you have to try lots of different things,
and keep trying lots of things because eventually something will stick.
While I still think it's true on the level of "careers" on a
developmental scale, I now think that's its also true on a day to day
level with regards to the process of creation. Writing good content (or
knitting good sweaters, or recording good audio) isn't dependent on a
ritual or a specific setting, or divine inspiration; but it is dependent
on writing lots of content (good and bad.)

NaNo's over. Congratulations to those who attempted and those who won. I
hope you have something that you're proud of and that you learned from.
I'd also encourage you to not stop yet. Edit what you have, get a good
sample together. Start a new project. Keep writing.

Onward and Upward!

