======================
Best of tychoish Posts
======================

.. post:: 2009-01-15
   :author: tychoish

So I've wanted to put together a "best of" roll call of my posts here in
the last couple of weeks/months. I write a lot of stuff for
tychoish.com, tens of thousands of words a year, and while I enjoy the
practice and what I write often helps me pull together ideas and
thoughts in a way that I don't really get to do in any other form, most
of the posts are ephemeral even for me. There are some posts that tend
to stick with me for a long time afterwords and serve as the beginning
of much longer trains of thought. This post presents a collection of
five of these posts for your perusal.

Mutt of IM
----------

So I'm 22, right. I actually don't talk about my age much on the blog
but there it is. As a member of my generation, and as someone who
doesn't much care for talking on the phone, I use instant messaging a
lot. It's convenient, it's possible to parallelize conversations with
other projects and with other conversations, and IM allows links and
other data to be exchanged. The only real problem is that IM software is
almost universally sub par.

**Update:** I've basically switched to using mcabber, an ncurses console
jabber client in combination with transports for AIM and MSN. This means
I'm not on yahoo (alas) but it works, and I rather like it, though it
took some substantial customization.

**Link:** `The Mutt of
IM <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/the-mutt-of-im/>`__

SEO Non-Sense
-------------

I wrote this post after hearing someone talk about search engine
optimization as a given part of the content creation process. Which
struck me at the time, as being the wrong way to respond to anyone who
was interested in "starting blogging," while organic search-engine hits
are important, certainly, promoting content on the Internet has more to
do with generating high-quality and innovative content that relies on
personal connections and word of mouth tools. This was then as is still
the case, and I think its important to challenge anyone who promotes the
idea that there are ways to *quickly* hit it big on the internet.

**Link:** `SEO Nonsense <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/seo-nonsense/>`__

Git Mail
--------

So I have this really geeky way of downloading my email. Basically I
store all of my email and associated configuration files in a git
repository, and I have a server that receives email, filters it through
procmail, and stores it in the git repository. Why is this good? I get
to cut out the worst part of email technology: the downloading protocols
(IMAP and POP). Furthermore, I get to use my own encryption (SSH) to
secure the transfer, and I can synchronize my mailbox between computers
without bothering with IMAP and the various conflicting implementations
of that protocol. I'm linking to the third series in this article
because it includes the code and implementation of the version that I
currently use. I didn't mention this in that article, but I have also
started to keep my procmail filters and mutt configuration files in the
same repository so that all mail-related data and settings are stored
together.

**Link:** `Git Mail <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/git-mail-3/>`__

Open Source Work
----------------

This was one of my earlier writings about the open source world, and is
I think a close conspirator of the next essay on this list. I think
there's something to be said for taking a materialist approach to
studying the open source world, and I'm interested in doing more with
this, though I must admit that I haven't yet. This definitely falls into
the "posts which represent key moments in my thinking.

**Link:** `Open Source
Work <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/open-source-work/>`__

There's No Economic There, There.
---------------------------------

Written during the heart of the first phase of the 2007/2008-20\_\_
recession, this piece was probably the most "political" I've been on the
blog in recent *years*, and just outlines the problems with economies
based on the exchange of credit rather than the exchange of material,
and it was an important post for me.

**Link:** `Is there any there,
there? <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/is-there-any-there-there/>`__

The Big Push
------------

I wrote a "introduction to push and pull technology," a while back that
started to dig deeper into usage habits and internet technology, as
being something more than just an exploration of web pages. While
websites are indeed quite powerful, things like the iPhone and the
explosion of interest in XMPP in the last year has illustrated to me at
least, the importance of thinking about the internet as being more than
just a collection of web pages, and this article is a marker of my
thoughts on the subject.

**Link:** `The Big Push <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/the-big-push/>`__

