==================================
Between the Darkness and the Light
==================================

.. post:: 2003-02-12
   :author: tychoish

Cycling through our, at the moment, not-so random, random quote
generator are two somewhat fitting quotes. One by Alfred Kinsey that
basically says nature exists as a continuum and that as humans we try
and force a wide spectrum of divergent elements into neat little
categories. Usually these categories represent polar opposites, and if
we're lucky, a middle ground, which is really incapable of describing
much of any thing. Kinsey was talking about human sexuality, and while
he did a lot to change the perceptions of sexuality, he wasn't able to
fully circumvent the human desire to categorize itself and its world. A
seven point scale is better than a three, two, or even one point scale,
but there are so many varieties and possibilities that just about
anything would somehow fall short.

Chris added another quote from the breakfast club that conveyed a very
similar message, but approached this problem from a completely different
perspective. It said, basically, that we see things as we wish to: in
the simplest, most convenient terms, when in fact we are individuals
comprised of multiple traits and behaviors.

Things exist in shades of grey, between the darkness and the light (I'll
any non-Chris person a hug if the can figure out that allusion and drop
me an email), and we as humans force everything into categories of black
and white because it's easy, because it gives us power, because it makes
us feel safe and in charge of a very scary world. The biggest problem
with this is, of course, that things don't exist on the planes of total
lightness, and total darkness.

I don't have any answers, unfortunately, but then we wouldn't have much
purpose in hanging around here if we did.

