========================
Beyond Lists in Org Mode
========================

.. post:: 2010-01-19
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: emacs, org-mode

I've written about this problem in `org-mode <http://orgmode.org>`__,
the `emacs <http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/emacs.html>`__ outlining
and organization tool that I us, before, but I'm readdressing it for my
benefit as well as yours.

Org mode is an outlining tool, fundamentally. It provides a nice
interface for editing and manipulating information arranged in an
outline format. Additionally, and this is the part that everyone is
drawn to, it makes it *very* easy to mark and treat arbitrary items in
the outline as "actionable," or todo items in need of done. The
brilliance of org-mode, I think, is the fact that you spend all your
time working on building useful outlines and then it has a tool which
takes all this information and compiles it into a useful todo list. How
awesome is that. For more information on org-mode, including good
demonstrations, check out this
`video <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oJTwQvgfgMM>`__.

The problem is a common and recurring one for me. I basically live in
the agenda mode--that compiled list of todo items--and I don't so much
use org-mode for making outlines. Truth is, I have a "Tasks" heading in
most org files, and I use the automatic capture option (e.g.
org-remember) to stuff little notes into the files, and beyond that, I
mostly don't interact with the outlines themselves.

This isn't a bad thing, I suppose, but it means that org-mode can't
really help you, and you've short-circuted the ability of org-mode to
improve the organization. Under ideal circumstances, org allows you to
embed and extract todo lists from the recorded record of your thought
process. If you're not actively maintaining your thoughts in your
org-mode files, it's just another todo list. That isn't without merit,
but it doesn't allow the creation of tasks and the flow of a project to
spring organically from your thoughts about the project, which is the
strength of org mode.

**Intermission:** I took a break from writing this post to go and
reorganize my org files. What follows are a list of "things I've
been doing wrong" and "things I hope to improve."

- I don't think I had enough org-files. There are lots of approaches to
  organizing information in org: one giant file, lots of small files
  for individual projects, a few mid to large files for each "sphere"
  of your life.

  Initially I took the "medium sized files for major ongoing projects." I
  had a writing file, and a work file, and a writing file, and files for
  the fiction projects that I'm working on, and a notes file, and a
  clippings file, and so forth. Say about 8-10 files. It works, but I
  think the thing it did was it caused me to use the org-remember
  functions to just dump things in a "tasks" heading, and then work from
  the agenda buffer, and not ever really have to touch the files
  themselves. *Org files need to be specific enough that you would want to
  keep them open in another window while you're working on a project.* I
  think the point where you know you've gone too far is when the first
  level headings start to replicate organization that might better be
  handled by the file-system.

- Use the scheduling and deadline functions to filter the todo list
  into something that is workable. It's easy to just look at the task
  list and say "oh no, I don't want to work on this task right now
  because it depends on too many things that aren't done, and there are
  other things that I could work on." Scheduling an item, if not
  setting a deadline, forces me (at least) to think practically about
  the scope of a given project, what kind of time I'll have to work on
  it, and what other tasks depend upon it.

- When you're using org to manage huge blocks of text--or any system,
  really--it can be difficult if you have multiple hierarchies and
  depths of greater than two or three. It just gets hard to manage and
  keep track of things and figure out where things are, particularly
  given how useful and prevalent search tools are.

  Having said that, When you're organizing tasks in org, that limitation,
  one that I find myself imposing upon myself doesn't really work terribly
  well, and leads to files that might actually be more difficult to read
  and to work out of.

- I started using the "org-archive-subree" function for archiving
  content when I was through with parts of the outline, This sends the
  archive to a separate file and while it works, I find it... less than
  useful. I've since discovered "org-archive-to-archive-sibling" which
  is a great deal of awesome, and I recommend using it exclusively.

- Write content in org mode when possible. Though some people (hi
  Matt!) are keen on using org as a publication system, I'm not sure if
  this is the right answer, but I do think that its good during very
  creative phases of projects to do the work in org, mostly as I think
  it facilitates focusing on the current problem (through collapsing of
  the tree to show you just what you're working on,) and also for
  working non-linearly as you can leave yourself TODO items for later
  action.

At the same time, if you tend to maintain org files that contain
planning for more than one project, I find it cumbersome to also draft
in these files. So I think "keep smaller very focused org files, and
maybe do drafting in them if appropriate."

That's a start at least. I've made these changes--which are really quite
subtle--and I like the way it feels, but we'll have to see how things
shake down in a few weeks. As much as I want to avoid tinkering with
things--because tinkering isn't the same as getting things done--I
really do find it helpful to review processes from time to time and make
sure that I'm really working as effectively as I can.
