===============
Big Data Impact
===============

.. post:: 2011-07-05
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, academia

I've been milling over this post about `big data in the IT
world <http://redmonk.com/sogrady/2010/08/03/hard-to-ask-the-right-question/>`__
for quite a while. It basically says that given large (and growing) data
sets, companies that didn't previously need data researchers suddenly
need people to help them use "big data." Everyone company is a data
company. In effect we have an ironic counter example to the effect of
automation on the need for labor.

These would be "data managers" have their work cut out for them. Data
has value, sure, but unlike software which has value as long as someone
knows how to use it, [1]_ poorly utilized data is just as good as no
data. Data researchers need to be able to talk to developers and help
figure out what data is worth collecting and what data isn't.
Organizations need someone to determine what data has real value, if
only to solve a storage-related problem. Perhaps more importantly data
managers would need to guide data usage both technically (in terms of
algorithms, and software design) and in terms of being able to
understand the abilities and shortfalls of data sets.

There's a long history of IT specialist positions: database developers,
systems administrators, quality assurance engineers, release
engineering, and software testing. Typically we divide this between
developers and operations folks, but even the development/operations
division is something of a misnomer. There are merits to generalism and
specialization, but as projects grow, specialization makes sense and
data may just be another specialty in a long tradition of software
development and IT organization.

Speicailization also makes a lot of sense in the context of data, where
having a lot of unusable data adds no value and can potentially subtract
value from an organization.

A Step Back
-----------

There are two very fundamental points that I've left undefined: what
"data" am I talking about and what kinds of skills differentiate "data
specialists" from other kinds of technicians.

What are big data?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Big data sets are, to my mind, large collections of data, GIS/map based
information, "crowd sourced" information, and data that is automatically
collected through the course of normal internet activity. Big data is
enabled by increasingly powerful databases and the ubiquity of the
computing power, which lets developers process data on large scales. For
examples: the aggregate data from foursquare and other similar services,
comprehensive records of user activity within websites and applications,
service monitoring data and records, audit trails of activity on shared
file systems, transaction data from credit cards and customers, tracking
data from marketing campaigns.

With so much activity online, it's easier for software developers and
users (which is basically everyone, directly or otherwise) to create and
collect a really large collection of data regarding otherwise trivial
events. Mobile devices and linkable accounts (OpenID, and other single
sign-on systems) simplify this process. The thought and hope is all this
data equals value and in many circumstances it does. Sometimes, it
probably just makes things more complicated.

Data Specialists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Obviously every programmer is a kind of "data specialist" and the last
seven or eight years of the Internet has done *everything* to make every
programmer a data specialist. What the Internet *hasn't* done is give
programers a sense of basic human factors knowledge, or a background in
fundamental quantitative psychology and sociology. Software development
groups need people who know what *kinds* of questions data can and
cannot answer regardless of what kind or how much data is present.

Data managers, thus would be one of those posistions that sits
between/with technical staff and business staff, and perhaps I'm partial
to work in this kind of space, because this is very much my Chance. But
there's a lot of work in bridging this divide, and a great deal of value
to be realized in this space. And it's not like there's a shortage of
really bright people who know a lot about data and social science who
would be a great asset to pretty much any development team.

Big Data Beyond Software Development
------------------------------------

The part of this post that I've been struggling over for a long time is
the mirror of what I've been talking about thus far. In short, do recent
advancements in data processing and storage (NoSQL, Map Reduce, etc.)
that have primarily transpired amonst startups, technology incubators,
and other "Industry" sources have the potential to help acdemic
research? Are there examples of academics using data collected from the
usage habits of websites to draw conclusions about media interaction,
reading habits, cultural particpation/formation? If nothing else are
sociologists keeping up with "new/big data" developents? And perhaps
most importantly, does the prospect of being able to access and process
large and expansive datasets have any affect on the way social
scientists work? Hopefully someone who knows more about this than I do
will [[offer answers\|discourse]]!

.. [1] Thankfully there are a number of conventions that make it pretty easy
   for software designers to be able to write programs that people can
   use without needing to write extensive documentation.
