==============
Blogging Forms
==============

.. post:: 2009-08-24
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyberculture

One of the aspects of "BloggingFail" [1]_ during the most recent
technology/new media bubble, is the emergence of "blog post formulas,"
which are basic post formats that people use to provide structure to a
post, and produce content in a way that's more readable for casual
visitors, and better for search engines.

Interestingly, not all of these formats are as bad as the BlogFail that
they helped create, and I've been interested in collecting/creating a
few new and different formats for blog posts. This is a collection of
those post templates.

The "N Things Post"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is big, and very mainstream we see this a lot as filler, and I
think it grows out of the kinds of articles you see on news stands.
Basically the gimmick (and I think it works) is that it promises a post
that will be easy to read, provide information in clear ways, and won't
encumber a collection of information with complicated rhetoric.

It works, there was a long time when `digg <http://www.digg.com>`__ was
filled with "N Things posts" of dubious merit. Having said that, it's a
great format for presenting some kinds of information.

**Tip:** While we're at it, it helps if the N is a prime number (eg. 5,
7, or 11 make good Ns for N Things Posts)

The RedMonk Interview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is mostly `Stephen O'Grady's <http://redmonk.com/sogrady/>`__
invention, though I've seen it elsewhere. The basic idea is that you ask
yourself a bunch of questions and then answer them yourself.

While this might sound contrite by my description, the posts that result
are often quite successful at communicating information. In a sort of
not-very-subtle way, you're able to frame your discussion by
communicating to your reader what questions you think are the most
important. It again wins by stripping away potentially complex and
linear rhetoric, and lets you sort of jumpstart the conversation that
inevitably follows.

The Synthetic Review
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I've started doing this more, and it's a form I've totally yanked from
Academic journals and other similar sorts of outlets. Basically, you
take two or three articles--potentially related, sometimes not--put
links to them at the top of the post and then respond to each post and
to the juxtaposition created by putting the links together in one post.

The questions I (try to) ask myself are both "what do I think of each of
these articles," and "what would these articles say about each other."

The Pattern/Tutorial
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the "here's how to do something" post. We see this in a lot of
genres, from knitting, to technology, to cooking and back again. These
posts tend to be both extremely popular and successful, but they are
also quite useful to readers, new and old.

When I got into blogging, we were much closer to the "journal" end of
the spectrum (as a community), but I think the transition to being about
providing/creating value is something that's really emerged in blogging
in the last ten years, in part because of the prevalence of a class of
posts like this. So there you have it.

.. [1] This is, in my estimation, what happened as a result of the hype
   around "new media," "social media," and "search engine optimization,"
   that resulted in an explosion in the number of blogs between 2006 and
   2009. Blogs which are mostly designed to generate advertising
   revenue, rather than stimulate useful conversation. This isn't to say
   that there's nothing good out there, but I think we've all come
   across blogs that fall into this category, and it's always apparent.
   In my weaker moments, I call it the ProBlogger phenomena.
