==========
boyfriends
==========

.. post:: 2007-12-28
   :author: tychoish

I write a lot on this site about what I'm doing in the world, and less
about who I am, in some sort of larger sense. Or something.

So much so that despite writing about "queer things" with some
regularity on the blog, I don't much talk about queer stuff in a
concrete sort of way. For instance, I don't talk about being gay at all
in my "`about page <http://tychoish.com/about/>`__." Weird. At one point
it was incredibly important to write those things.

I've thought from time to time that I make a better "professional queer"
than I do a "real queer," even if thats a fraught distinction, It's kind
of true. At some point I'm going to have to figure out how to figure
this out. For the moment, I'm going to postpone that transcendental
realization.

Anyway. About "boyfriends" and I suppose girlfriends as well, though I
don't want to universalize or project. I have a friend and blog reader
(hi!) who is very interested and invested in *having a boyfriend,* and
all that accompanies that, while I can totally understand the way that,
particularly for queers, being attached confirms identity experience,
this isn't a project that I've ever been very interested in. "These
things happen, particularly when you're not looking for them," I've
often said. And I've generally found that to be true, though not
absolute.

In real life, I generally refer to TheBoy by his name or in an ironic
nod to the 70s and 80s culture as my "friend" (given that I don't talk
about friends in my cohort very often, it's not incredibly odd). I've
often wondered how this kind of positioning affects the
closet/not-closeted dynamic, and often conclude that I really don't
care. I enjoy the freedom and possibility that being vague allows (the
boy has a potentially gender-neutral name in the diminutive/common form,
indeed as do I,) though there are clear problems with this.

--------------

I'm not sure how to build this transition, so I'm not going to try. The
other piece of this puzzle in my mind is that I don't "crush"
particularly well, which has lead me to declare (somewhat falsely) that
I don't really have a "type." I can't remember having a crush for more
than a few days without them finding out (usually by virtue of me
telling them about it.) TheBoy is an exception to this, but I was in
high school for g-d sakes. It's actually kind of funny, because I don't
think of myself as being particularly forthright about such things, but
there's data to challenge that. Weird.

--------------

Anyway, there are going to be socks in a few days. And neurosis aside,
warm feet are always a good thing.

