============
Brunch Plans
============

.. post:: 2015-01-03
   :author: tychoish
   :location: Brooklyn, NY

There's been a lot of change in my life in the six months or a year,
and I've mostly avoided reflecting about it in writing. I've tried
writing about it and tried fictionalizing it: I think that I'm not
comfortable with my own interpretation of the last six months or my
current state in a way that I could write from. Given the recent
calendar roll over, there's a lot of reflection in the air.

The longer I don't write, the larger the burden of not writing and
exploring becomes. Surprisingly, not feeling like a trustworthy
observer of my life isn't terribly alarming: I'm confident that I am
rapidly reaching a place where the present and the future will be easy
to write from, particularly on the smaller scale. There's just this
hole in the larger narrative of my life, that I feel obligated to
feel.

But maybe it's OK if I don't. Or if I don't just yet.

I think it's also ok to start writing about little things that have
changed, things that I'm enjoying in my life that are new and
different. This will be the first post in that series.

-----

Today I had four people over to my house for brunch. 

I made collard greens cooked with a whole onion, an entire head of
garlic, and one beef sausage for flavor. I'd never made collards
before (it was great). For next time, I definitely need a larger pan,
and need more onion and garlic, perhaps adding mushrooms instead of
the sausage, which was nice but not noteworthy. Will make again.

I also made oatmeal, but of the steal cut variety cooked using the
overnight method where you boil the oats in milk and let it simmer for
two minutes, and then let it cool and sit over night, and then boil
again in the morning and simmer for 10-12 minutes. My modification
was to put a couple of tea spoons of olive oil in with the oats at
night. I served with blackberry jam and greek yogurt. 

And, of course, several pots of coffee. 

Simple, not a lot of work. Excessively delicious. Nice to have people
in my living room, chatting, eating, and enjoying being with
people, and a good way to spend time on a weekend. 

I used to think of weekend mornings as an opportunity to write or work
on my own projects that required a lot of attention and focus. I'm not
sure that I really like this way of ritualizing creativity. I also now
live in the same neighborhood as a large number of my friends with
half a dozen brunch places (or more!) within a mile. Brunch became
much more appealing. 

While I certainly enjoy going somewhere for brunch, there's something
great about having people over and feeling awesome and comfortable
about having friends over.

----

I don't think I'm a different person now than I was before, I don't
think its fair or correct to narrate the changes in my life as a
progress narrative. Lives change, settings change, people change:
things are different, and perhaps that's enough.
