===========================
By George, It\&#039;s Empty
===========================

.. post:: 2004-06-11
   :author: tychoish

I bet you thought you were going to be able to survive this week without
seeing something about Ronald W. Regan on TealArt. So sorry. Actually, I
don't really give a rat's ass about the "deify/vilify" Regan thing.
There are a couple a poignant responses to Regan's non-treatment of the
AIDS crisis, most notably this, by Brad Graham. Honestly though, I can
imagine any other ruler of the era dealing with it differently; not that
that excuses him by any means.

In any case, what I really wanted to offer, was this little logistical
thought. See according to all of the sources I've encountered, Regan's
body has been lying in state for a few days now at the presidential
library. His "body" is now being flown the D.C. where it'll lay in state
until a big hoopla at the national cathedral sometime this weekend or
Monday. The days are unimportant.

What I'm thinking is that his body will never leave the Regan
Presidential library.

Why?

It's a closed casket; it has to be flown across the country twice. Why
would they bother to do that? Who's to know? More importantly, who's to
care? Flying dead bodies anywhere costs tens of thousands of dollars,
and I see little purpose in moving it around so much. "His" presence is
unrequited for the formality to serve it's purpose. And we'll never know
for sure.

Unless someone tries to hit the National Cathedral during the service
(given who'll be there, I suspect the risk is somewhere around a muted
orange), they'll never say, but between you and me it's empty.

