===================
Caffeine Dependence
===================


Sometimes, particularly when it feels like I'm not getting very much
done, I'd probably tell you that I'm not very good at keeping myself a
routine and that I'm not terribly focused most of the time.

I'd probably be lying.

While I wish that I had additional routines and habits more firmly
established (blogging, writing, excercise, the truth is (I think, in
retrospect) that *a lot* of how I exist in the world has to do with
routines, and winning the mind-over-matter game.

Since graduating from college, or there abouts I've been very keen to
limit/control the amount of sleep I get in an effort to control normal
fluctuations in mood. I'm pretty keen on waking up "early" so that I can
spend a few hours in the morning before the day starts writing and
tending to my own things in "*me time*." I'm also pretty mindful of how
I use caffeine to control awakeness and focus, and I primarily do
exercise/gym things to modulate my mood and energy level, to control how
much I sleep and am able to focus.

Welcome to my life.

I realized much to my delight, that I'd reached that stage of sleep
deprivation where I'm able to fall asleep directly after drinking a cup
of tea and *stay asleep*, until the morning. I've also managed to get in
a habit, where, most nights, I roll over and check the clock between
sleep cycles. It doesn't make the sleep feel less restful, but I do feel
more grounded in reality when I wake up, and tend to be less groggy as a
result.

Frankly this is kind of exciting for me.

Yesterday, I made tea right before I left the office, but left the mug
there, and my night was noticeably effected by the chemical difference
(I usually drink up to 24 ounces of tea on the train home.) All is
better today.

