==========================
Can't you Smell the Stress
==========================

.. post:: 2007-11-28
   :author: tychoish

Ok, so maybe this is a poorly titled entry, after all, at least
theoretically we *can* smell stress. Perhaps my obscure allusion to
"can't you smell christmas" and the holiday season to the end of
semester stress that is so typical to my life it seems is lost.

Actually it's sort of weird. The school I'm at now, started a few weeks
before my *alma mater* typically did (and does), so I've sort of been
"off" rhythmically for a lot of the semester. It's of course most
profound now, when my body thinks there's another two and a half/three
weeks of classes, when there's really just one and a half. And no
Alliance wine and cheese party either!

It's finally turning cold for real. I can wear sweaters without getting
awkwardly hot midday when it unsuspectingly spikes from a low in the 30s
to 65s. Insanity I tell you.

I'm slowly writing new little blurbs to the new TealArt site, and I have
an installation of the new CMS that works. Up next: more blurbs, and
some design meshing. Nothing big, but it'll probably take some time.

I have two big papers (and two small ones) to write plus my statement of
purpose. I have the core of the later done, but it still needs, as
smurry so keenly pointed out, to have the soul sucked out of it. The
small papers don't worry me, and I'm choosing to view my bigger papers
as re-workings of previous papers, though I think at least in one case,
I'm so the only one who will see the connections. As it should be I
suppose.

Knitting continues abreast. I'm now 6 rounds (of 400 stitches) away from
the underarm point on the Morocco sweater--I know I need to get newer
pictures of this one up. This leaves me at a bit of a conundrum, with
regards to how I'm going to proceed. I've thought for a number of weeks
that I'd post a blog poll on the subject, but I think in the interim
I've mostly made up my mind. So I'll probably still ask for your
opinion, but be warned that I might not listen.

Because moving onto the next stage will require some thinking only a few
calculations, I suspect that much of my knitting between the end of the
week and December 10th will consist of very simple projects, like hats
and what not: I don't know if I'll have the brain energy for anything
else.

Speaking of brain energy, I think I'm writing this on brain energy
that's already been allotted elsewhere, so I better run before an
auditor comes along. Be well, and thanks for reading.

Onward and Upward!

