======================
Cardigan Modifications
======================

.. post:: 2008-05-01
   :author: tychoish

Here is today's entry/breadcrumb of the pattern for the latvian dreaming
sweater. IF you want to make the sweater into a cardigan, here's the
scoop:

--------------

Some of you have asked for or expressed interest in doing this sweater
as a cardigan. My last three sweaters have been cardigans, and I'm ready
for a change, but these kinds of sweaters make a lot of sense to a lot
of people, so don't be discouraged, you can make this sweater as a
cardigan.

The main difference here is that you need an extra stitch so that the
patterns mirror properly. So that's 345 stitches. There also need to be
steeks. I think cardigans work better without ribbing, or if you're
going to do ribbing, why not wait till the end: this has to do with
steeks and getting all of the end in the right place. So you don't have
to, but lets just assume that you do:

Cast on provisionally for 345 stitches, join in the contrasting color,
and then using the long tail method cast on an odd number of stitches
for a steek, I'm partial to 11 or 13. *The first, last, and middle
stitches should be in the background color, and the stitches on either
side of the middle stitch should be in the foreground color. All other
stitches should alternate fore and background colors.*

You need the extra stitch because I suspect that you want both front
edges to look the same. In a pullover you only want one middle/"turning"
stitch, to make the pattern work. In a cardigan you want the middle
stitch to be on both the left and right front. You could have the middle
stitch on *neither* the left *nor* the right, but that seems silly, as
typically you want the front of a sweater to be a bit wider than the
back (it's one of those anatomical things), and while 1/8th or less of
an inch shouldn't matter much, I seem to care about these things.

Then with both colors begin knitting the mirror side of the chart.
Establish the pattern on the back the same as you would for a pullover,
and end with one repeat of the normal side of the chart. Then continue
reading from the chart, flipping back and forth as necessary.

Hope that helps!

