===============
Career Pathways
===============

.. post:: 2011-05-03
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: career, essay

I always thought that I would go to graduate school sometime in my
twenties. I ask questions that are pretty geeky and difficult to answer,
I think learning and research are pretty important, and I want to talk
to people about ideas, projects, and theories. There are skills I need
to be able to address the questions I have and background literates that
I wish I were way more familiar with.

It seems like a good fit. Right?

Right. Well, right only if we accept that graduate school is a mechanism
for personal betterment. While that has to be part of it, mostly
graduate school is a job and the first in a long line of possible jobs.
The academic career path has merits and demerits, but it's still *work*,
and I think to ignore this, makes it possible to accept atrocious labor
practices in the academic world.

Somehow, without much intentionally on my part, I've found a career that
I enjoy. Even more curious is the fact that being a professional writer
with some technical background is the kind of thing that enjoys a
certain kind of perpetual demand. And better yet, it's impossible to get
a degree to support this career: as near as I can tell literature
degrees, history degrees, theology degrees, theater degrees, and
psychology degrees are all equally relevant and irrelevant.

While I'm not convinced that I never want to teach, if the "getting a
job" portion of going to graduate school is somewhat moot, then I'm left
with a couple of questions:

- If additional schooling doesn't affect career options and
  possibilities, then does it make sense to spend significant time in
  pursuit of an advanced degree?

- How do I develop and maintain an intellectual and scholarly practice
  without graduate school?

- How do I prevent my career from stagnating and from getting stuck in
  less than ideal jobs in mid-career and late career stages?

- I work in field where the need for human labor is constantly (and
  ideally) being automated away. The conventional wisdom is "develop
  specialties, but don't get too cemented in a particular function so
  that you have options for after your job gets replaced. Combined with
  the orthogonal issue that writing and the work of writers is horribly
  misunderstood by just about everyone, figuring out "career paths is
  not necessarily easy. How do I deal with this long term concern in a
  more manageable way while being mindful of the future concerns.

While I sometimes feel like this blog can stray into the "overly meta",
I think that prefer intentionally over aimless wandering. Indeed, I
think this career issue might have been a great deal easier for me had I
figured some of these things out earlier. I know that we don't always
find clear and definitive answers to these problems and that solutions
come in pieces and very slowly.

This [[series\|career]] is about thinking about these issues to increase
the possibility of intentionally and to document my process so that
people can provide feedback. With luck, this will also help form a model
for people who want to think about ways of contributing to scholarly
conversations and grow intellectually, but needn't do that in the
context of the academic training and labor market.

I look forward to hearing from you and working with you all!
