=========================
Casting on Fewer Stitches
=========================

.. post:: 2008-04-30
   :author: tychoish

Ok I'm *finally* going to clear this business up about the
320/340/342/344 stitch count on the latvian dreaming sweater project

I said to cast on, 320 stitches, the charts cover 342 stitches, and I've
been saying that you need 344 stitches. What gives?

Well, I want to avoid having the bottom edge of the sweater flare out.
Casting on fewer stitches keeps this from happening. Elizabeth
Zimmermann recommends casting on 90% of K (or 344), and that would give
us something like 310 or 309. Meh. For starters I know that 320 is
divisible by 4. Also, in laziness, it's easy to cast on 320 stitches,
because it's divisible by 80 and therefore also easy to increase evenly
across, because it's so evenly divisible. The dirty secret of making
KnittingMath easy for you and yours is choosing good numbers.

Secondly, I don't want the lower edge of the sweater to pull in as much
as I want it to *not flare.* Often people suggest casting on with a
smaller needle and not having one at hand (and not much liking my US 0s
anyway,) I'm just casting on fewer stitches. Feel free to modify this
point if you like.

I should also admit that in the first draft of the pattern (the key
number was 340, good thing that draft never saw the light of day: I
didn't realize that I needed 4 extra stitches for borders and turning
stitches,) so I thought increasing 10 stitches on the front and the back
would be really easy. But no matter, it'll still work out.

That answer your question?

I'd like to see pictures and hear reports of your projects as they
develop. Also, if you make any cool modifications I'd totally like to
hear about them too. I know that I'm still ahead of the gang with the
knitting on this one, so I hope that by dragging out the cast-on and the
bottom rib, I've been able to let at least a few of you get your yarn
and get caught up. It's also let me get done with my last sweater, but
next up we're going to increase so we can begin the color pattern.

I see math in my future.

Knit in good health! I'll be in touch. You be too.

