=========================================
A Catalog of Open Source and Free Culture
=========================================

.. post:: 2009-01-08
   :author: tychoish

I've been writing recently here about `open
source <http://tychoish.com/tags/open-source>`__ and free software, and
what happens to the practices and ideologies of these projects when they
"jump species" and start affecting the world outside of open source.
This is, I suppose, part of a larger response/digestion of `Christopher
Kelty's *Two Bits* <http://twobits.net/>`__ monograph.

Having said that, this post isn't a response *per se* but rather a
catalog of all the various kinds of software and non-software projects
that are connected in some way to open source and free software. I hope
that such a catalog will be helpful in thinking more concretely about
these issues. Without further ado:

Open Network Services
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I'm using this as a banner for service-based software that derives
inspiration from the free software movement, but is based on network
services (web sites, web applications, and so forth). The AGPL is a free
software approach to dealing with the code, but I don't think that well
executed open network services is something that can--exactly--be
conveyed with a liscence. Examples: `identi.ca <http://www.identi.ca>`__
and `gitorious <http://gitorious.com>`__.

Standard Network Protocols (e.g. IETF)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I wouldn't have been particularly inclined this on my own but from
Kelty's (2008) book `Two Bits <http://www.twobit.net>`__ I realized that
it fits. The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) is responsible for
defining and maintaining the standards that make the Internet go, so
that Linux developers and Apple developers and Blackberry developers can
all write software that can "talk" to each other via the network. It's
not open source, exactly, but the most successful standards will be the
ones that are most accessible and that a community feels at least partly
responsible for (ie. has input from), which is in the end a lot like
open source.

Creative Commons
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Though Creative Commons (CC) is in some ways the most obvious umbrella
of non-software free software projects, I am almost a bit hesitant to
include it here. Though I don't have a very clear idea of the history,
it seems like CC takes a "copyleft" (like GNU GPL) approach to "hack" a
very different problem. Where free software "hacks" an understanding of
the collaborative nature of software and the ability to tweak software
into copyright law, CC "hacks" an understanding of digital distribution
and post-scarcity digital reality into copyright law. Similar,
particularly on first blanch, but underneath? Maybe not as much.

Un-conferences/BarCamps
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These conferences are intended to be very adhoc and tend to provide very
open access to organizational information and participation. While these
conferences aren't anarchist in the contemporary sense, they practice
openness in a way that resonates at least a little with the free
software/open source movement.

Not-For Profits/Community Organizations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I'm thinking of things like
`BucketWorks <http://www.bucketworks.com/>`__. While NFPs aren't a new
things, I think increasingly they'll be connected with the logic of open
source. There are a lot of "businesses" that I think will never be
capable of generating a huge return, (coffee shops, yarn stores, book
stores,) that I think will be more likely to operate in an "open source"
manner, lead by communities, with "business" decisions being made by the
community of users.

Wiki Projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While I'm not sure if wiki projects, like
`wikipedia <http://www.wikipedia.com>`__ and
`wikitravel <http://wikitravel.org/>`__ are truly the non-software
equivelents to open source/free software; their collaborative nature is
familiar. There's something about Wikis that inspire their editors and
contributors to be "exhaustive" in a way that I don't think shares much
with open source and it's centralization on Unix-like systems.

Free Culture
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Really this is another huge category, to my mind it represents the
"activist" types who "port" some of the ideas about software freedom to
other domains, like music, or art, or writing. Tends to be explicitly
ideological rather than keep the implicit/quasi-agnosticism that free
software itself often has.

Crypto-anarchists/Security Researchers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Having top-to-bottom control over the software you run on your computer
would seem to appeal to the paranoid and cryptographically informed set.
There's obviously a lot of overlap with the typical software freedom
hacker here, but I think the *reason for using open source* software
(and other related tools) is distinct.

Revolutionaries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I include this because I think it's important to note an important
distinction. While I think many "software freedom" people would argue
that leftists/radicals/revolutionaries would use free software because
it might embody the freedom that their fighting for, I think it's
probably more realistic to expect that said revolutionaries would use
open source tools because it is more available and powerful. Not that
this argument is of consequence. I include "revolutionaries" in this
list because it's *different* from other rationale.

