=========================
Coding on the Battlefield
=========================

.. post:: 2003-07-03
   :author: tychoish

While I haven't posted a new entry to TealArt in far, far too long I
haven't completely forgotten about the site. I've been doing some
backend work here and there, mostly during writing breaks on Another
Round (I'm at the 15,000 word mark currently). So, as a result, the side
bar is a little cleaner. I fixed a few problems with the CMS (which will
explain the title in a bit), and I've begun working on an exciting
project that I think you'll all like when I get it done, but I'm not
quite ready to talk about now. Let the suspense build.

We've also added another TealArt contributor. Paula Forbes is no
stranger to my hair brained website ploys. I've worked with her on some
very frivolous projects as well (oh, but boy, they were so fun), and her
work is just great, so I hope you'll enjoy her stuff. Peter McCabe also
promises to start writing again, and I'm really looking forward to that
as well. And, you still have Chris and me to boot.

Just in case any of you are interested in what's happening over at
CollectiveArts, I'm pleased to say that we're getting really close to
reopening the doors over there. Really close. So stay tuned, and if
you're interested helping out with that drop me an email. CollectiveArts
is open to just about anyone who wants to join, within certain bounds
(and subject to review, of course).

Now that we have that out of the way, I'd like to get back to the
'coding on the battlefield,' if that's alright with you.

I'm glad it is.

I've noticed that when ever I'm faced with a problem that involves
coding, recently that's been PHP and HTML code almost exclusively, and I
can't seem to get it to work, I start cutting things out. Rather than
try and fix daunting problems with the formation of the code, I cut
offending portions out. It's a philosophy that simpler is probably
better than complexity, and that if I don't absolutely need something,
that I can probably do with out it. So this leaves me feeling like a
surgeon on a battlefield, doing twenty or more amputations in an hour.
Though I suppose having a log of everything your CMS does referenced by
file name, time, and line of code isn't quite the same as having an arm
or a leg, but there may be similarities.

Well, anyway. I'm back here, and it's good to be home.

