====================
Cold Feet, Literally
====================

.. post:: 2008-01-14
   :author: tychoish

Ok, I said a while ago, that I was going to run out of good titles for
posts that weren't *essays* any even the most informal sense, but rather
journal entries in the most conventional sense. So here we have "cold
feet" literally, the only thing on my mind. (Don't worry, I've since put
on wool socks.)

I spent most of this weekend relaxing and unwinding. I didn't get enough
reading done, of course, but I think it was good to have some time to
chill. I got some good knitting done, I watched some enjoyable
television, mucked around with the computer productively, and worked a
number of hours, and while I have been costing into the new week, I
think I'm feeling pretty good about the world and my place in it.

I am, apparently, going to reflect in this post on my current state of
mind vis a vis technology. Because that makes sense. I mean I am a huge
geek, but it's clear to me that so much of what I do is constrained by
my computer usage. Writing happens almost entirely with the computer, a
lot of my knitting time happens while I'm watching TV on my computer, my
academic articles and database is on my computer. You get the idea.

The rest of the post is below the fold, because I'm going to be humane,
but you really should read it. ;)

.. raw:: html

<!--more-->

I'm still using Tiger (Mac OS 10.4) Despite what
`Andy/Chris <http://www.cgkreality.com/>`__ says, I kind of would like
to move to the new operating system, at some point. My mother is going
to buy an iMac this week, after it's clear what Steve announces tomorrow
morning, and so with the extra computer in the mix, we'll have a spare
that we can use to shift data around on so that we can do clean installs
on all of our machines which should be nice.

I write here about
`productivity <http://tychoish.com/tag/productivity/>`__ a fair bit, and
I've certainly sussed a fair bit about organizational methodologies like
GTD from places like `43 folders <http://www.43folders.com/>`__. I've
never had a lot of problems that productivity geeks seem to address. I'm
good at writing things down, I'm good at making the write kind of lists,
I don't have problems with things falling through the cracks, and
generally I don't spend too much time futzing with the system.

So usually, new programs and productivity doodads, seem really cool for
about the length of time it takes me to write a blog post, and then I've
moved on, back whatever it was that I was doing previously. Recently I
got the distinct feeling that what I was doing earlier, basically
project based text file lists, with no automation, wasn't cutting it.
This is in part because I've not been using it properly for a while, and
perhaps more importantly because I'm starting to get busier, and I need
something more robust. So I downloaded
`OmniFocus <http://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omnifocus/>`__, which
is the long awaited Killer GTD App from OmniGroup. It's descended from a
hodgepodge of apple scripts that I tried and abandoned a while ago
called KinklessGTD, and I have to say that it's really amazing. I mean I
don't quite grok everything, and my perennial problems with GTD of
basically not using contexts and having projects that are too big and
ongoing... But I mean other than that.

It's to early to tell, but I'm giving a preliminary thumbs up.

Part of my frustration in this sphere is tied into my state of mind
regarding the way my files are organized. While SVN, as I've written
earlier has been a great tool that I've come to really enjoy using and
depend on, it means that I'm disinclined to reorganize files, and
rearrange how things are laid out. Which is bad because I think some
part of my brain really thinks on a cork wall and wants to move files
around just to see how it looks or suits my state of mind. This is
something that isn't productive, so I'm fighting it, but it is throwing
me for loop and i need to figure something out here. Ah well. Time will
tell.

The next post had better be more interesting. That's all I'm saying

