=============
Collar Design
=============

.. post:: 2012-06-27
   :author: tychoish

The success or failure of the collar of a sweater determines the
success or failure of an entire sweater. This post provides an
overview of my basic: "how to knit a collar" system that *usually*
works for me and some thoughts on why collars are so important.

The hard part of collars is that on the whole, collar shaping accounts
for five or ten percent of the knitting, but weeks or months worth of
work hangs in the balance. The collar affects both the overall style
of the sweater and has a great impact on how you will feel about the
sweater when you wear it. A collar that doesn't hang right, or is too
narrow or too wide is *the worst*: the right collar can also make a
sweater that is otherwise too light feel just warm enough and more
importantly the sweater that's too heavy not feel oppressively warm.

So how do you knit a collar?

Easy. 

*The fine print*: These instructions assume that
you're knitting the sweater in the round.</small> 

*For a basic, round, crew neck...*

Figure out how long your sweater will be from the top of the shoulder
seam to the bottom hem. Typically this is the length measurement in
the pattern and you can measure it easily yourself. 

Figure out how many stitches around your collar *opening* needs to be
at the very end, but the width of the hole at the top seam. Because
you're shaping the collar, the number of stitches on the collar *as
you knit it* will be slightly higher because of the angles/sloped
edges. Typically this is 13-16 inches for most people. 

Elizabeth Zimmerman would figure 1/3rd of K, which is a good starting
point, but if your sweater has too much ease or if your making a
sweater in excess of 40 inches (which isn't too big,) I think you'll
end up with neck openings that are a little too wide. 

Before you start, compute the following values: 

- Half of the total collar width. This is the total number of stitches
  that you need to set aside or decrease by the time you get to the
  shoulder seam *on the front and the back*.
  
- About half of this number or a quarter of the total (or a bit less,
  round down here, if need be) to set aside at the base of the neck.
  
- The total number of stitches minus the actual number of stitches set
  aside at the bottom of the neck, if your math is fuzzy. This is the
  number of stitches that you have to decrease on either side of the
  neck. *This number must be even.* 
  
- The distance between the bottom of the neck and the top of the
  shoulder. This is almost always within a half an inch of 3
  inches. Also record the number of rows.

With these numbers in hand, do the following. 

**Three** (3) inches before this length, begin the collar
shaping. (Change depth as needed.)

Set aside stitches at the bottom of the neck. 

Decrease on either side of the neck opening (possibly using a steek,)
every row until you have decreased half of the number of stitches that
you need to decrease. Typically this should take about an inch and a
half of knitting, or half of the total collar depth to accomplish. 

After you've knitted half of the total collar depth, figure out how
many stitches you've decreased at this point. Set this number of
stitches aside in the middle of the back of the sweater. 

*Meanwhile:* Create a new steak or begin decreasing at the back of the
neck at the same rate as you decrease at the front.

Now decrease at *half* the rate (e.g. every other row) for the
remainder of the depth of your collar opening. Bind off. You've made a
sweater.

If you time it right, and your stitches are not too short and wide,
this basically works out to: set aside stitches at the front, decrease
every row for an inch and a half, set aside stitches at the back,
decrease every other row for an inch and a half. Bind off for
shoulders. 

Variants: 

- Knit more on the front so that the shoulder seam is actually at the
  top of the back, and the front of the sweater extends over the top
  of the shoulder.

- Use shoulder saddles or straps to increase the depth of the
  neck. This is a perpendicular strip of knitting that starts at the
  side of the neck and extends across the shoulders and forms the top
  part of the sleeve. 
  
  In this case, subtract half of the width of the saddle/strap from
  the depth of the collar opening, and twice the width from the
  opening. Adjust accordingly: typically the best thing to do is
  figure out how much additional depth you need to decrease, figure
  out how many rows that will be, and plan to decrease on every row and
  set aside the remainder. Depending on the depth you may need to
  "fill in" or shape some of the depth on the back of the neck.
  
- If your shoulders slope downward, consider short rows across one or
  both of the sides, to make the top of the sweater a bit more
  conical. 

- I often make Henly-style sweaters by setting aside a single stitch
  (and knitting a steek) 3-5 inches bellow the bottom of the
  collar. This keeps sweaters from becoming too warm.
  
