=============
Collaboration
=============

.. post:: 2007-10-22
   :author: tychoish

So I've had this kooky idea for a while to set up a sort
clearinghouse/repository for GFDL and other open source style knitting
patterns. The idea would be that a community of knitters could probably
do a pretty good job of maintaining a collection of frameworks that
would be really useful for people who want to get in and do design work,
teach classes, and so forth. The truth is that most knitting patterns
follow only a handful of different models, and there are only so many
ways to actually knit a particular shape, so we're stuck recreating the
wheel time and time again, rather than creating new things.

Furthermore, because we're always working from scratch, we're more
likely to make silly errors. We may know that we always do sleeve
decreases on every third row, but if we write on the 4th row, the
chances of you or a tech editor catching it is probably pretty slim.
Linus Torvalds' (or someone similar) suggest that one of the benefits of
open source is that "with enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow." And I
think this is also true of knitting patterns. If enough people read
through a pattern, the bugs will get sorted out, and the patterns can be
of a consistently higher quality. Which is a reputation and a strength
that can be transferred to any manner of derivative works.

It seems like a great idea. Even after a number of weeks since I wrote
the initial series of TealArt entries on the subject, I still feel like
it's a great idea.

The problem is, I have no idea of how to organize it.

I mean, I think I know how to work with people to have it done, there
are organizational and logistical concerns that I don't have the
foggiest idea about how to organize it. My notion is to set up a
framework, and seed a collection of publicly liscenced patterns, and
then work to build a community around this. The ish is that I haven't a
clue as to the kind of framework and standards to set up in the
beginning to make sure that it makes sense.

I fear I'm starting too in the middle for this to make sense. I sketched
out some rough ideas on the subject that are still up at the `knitting
section <http://tychoish.com/knitting/>`__ of TealArt, for starters. The
kinds of framework that I'm up in the air about are:

- how do we categorize and sort patterns so that they make sense to
both the contributors and to the people who might be using the
repository?
- what format do we write patterns in? What kind of stylistic standards
do we establish?
- when is a pattern completed, and when is a pattern considered still
in progress?

Thankfully there are plenty of really powerful community tools that
allow for the right kind of collaboration, and I think that I can--with
time--get it together so that it makes sense for people, the issue is
more of a data structure problem.

I think that `KnitML <http://www.knitml.com>`__ will answer a lot of
these questions at least in terms of the formating and style (which is
the hardest issue.) We're still a ways away on this, but there's
progress and I don't think I'm much closer than KnitML to getting the
project off the ground, so that's safe. The second group of issues,
relating to simply organizing the patterns, I'm thinking less is
probably more here, the fewer categories there are the less there is
that will make me/us say "wtf" in six months...

Anyway, I've blathered long enough, I'm going to go visit theBoy and
maybe get some reading done. We'll see. Here's to more productivity in
the future!

