================
consultant tycho
================

.. post:: 2008-11-21
   :author: tychoish

Over the past week or two, I've been working on a number of side
projects that I've started to realize as a new and interesting project
in and of themselves.

The first project is that I've been working on (re)designing a website
with/for my friend `Scott <http://www.scottfarquhar.com>`__, who is a
composer/voice actor/podcaster type. While he has a lot of HTML skills
he's never done any of the--even very elementary--web-programging (a la
the PHP code/templates that wordpress uses) that one needs to do to have
nifty dynamic websites.

So I've been working with him to use wordpress to build a basic
portfolio site and blog. It's a pretty straightforward kind of a site,
but you have to know wordpress pretty well to know how to design a theme
so that all of the right content ends up in the right place. I've been
using wordpress, more or less since the beginning so it's the kind of
thing that I'm pretty good at.

The second project has been to design and implement a version of the
tychoish.com theme for a new wordpress installation that I can deploy
for various members of my family who want to use wordpress as a note
taking platform. While I use a wiki (with a blogging plugin) for this
task personally, the editing interface for wordpress along with its
metadata system (tagging and categories) makes for a really ideal
notebook-solution. There are other features like comments for
annotations and revision tracking for storing document history that have
been really helpful, and make this a really good solution.

And of course the fact that I'm building these sites around wordpress
makes a couple of things possible. First, it's open source so we can run
these notebooks and portfolio sites on our own (or rented) hardware, and
the data is easily exportable into a lot of very useful formats if we
ever want to change. Second, the software isn't very resource intensive
to run, particularly for lower volume sites like these, so it can run
almost anywhere.

The truth is, that the biggest part of both of these projects was
talking to the people who would be using the software to figure out what
they already did with their existing websites/notebooks, and then
figuring out how to do the same thing with the new solution, and finally
also learning enough about what they wanted to do to be able to figure
out with they might do that they couldn't do before.

I guess that makes me something of a consultant.

Weird.

Even more wierd is the feeling that I actually *like* doing this. And I
find it ties together a lot of things that I do. My "day-job," does
similar sorts of things (for different kinds of "clients" with different
sorts of problems), and what I've done thusfar is very much inline with
my musings here about `open
source <http://tychoish.com/tags/open-source/>`__ and
`productivity <http://tychoish.com/tags/productivity/>`__, which is
kinda cool.

In a weird way, this is very much inline with my initial forays into the
web-world which seemed to center around organizing creative types (in
the largest sense) on the internet. This was nearly 10 years ago, but
the threads are there. That's something that I've realized as I've
started new projects and new directions recently: even when I think
they're new and novel, I realize that they resonate with things I was
working on and thinking about during high school.

Go figure.

