===================
consumerism and tea
===================

.. post:: 2008-04-11
   :author: tychoish

So, I apparently have turned into a lazy blogger. I'm not sure what to
say about this. I have, probably four more days on the waitlist maybe 5
or 6 which means I've been on the list for 28+ days. My heart races just
thinking about it.

Knitting is going well. I'm 4-5 inches into the yoke, so probably at
least half done with this section, but each round has fewer and fewer
stitches. I'm decreasing what amounts to 8 stitches every three rounds,
and though all of Elizabeth Zimmerman's Seamless Yoke Style sweater
"structures" work with colorwork designs, you have to monkey with the
decrease rates because the vertical to horizontal gauge is different in
stranded work (stitches are more narrow). Keep this in mind.

My mother and I went shopping this morning. I found a book bag at REI
(my old one is getting ratty, and broken) and I ordered it online as
soon as I got home. We also went to "The Container Store" and I got a
couple of little glass (and plastic) airtight jars to hold loose tea,
and I'm quite like them, so I'll have to go back to get a couple more at
some point. We also got--and this was the reason for the
trip--bathroom/shower accessories, of which we were in great need of.

I'm working through my tea bag stash in an effort to move to loose leaf
tea more full time. I have two experimental varieties of tea bags (and
one known quantity) left hanging around that will probably take a while
to get through, but I want to have less stuff in stock before I go forth
and buy more lose tea...

And speaking of tea buying, I want to get one of those strainer/french
press things that you can get to use in a nalgene for when I'm on the
road in the future...

Anyway, back to the knitting, I must get this done soon, because I want
to move on to the next thing, and I'm so close!

Stay well!

