========================================
Contact, Cyberculture, and Samuel Delany
========================================

.. post:: 2009-03-31
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: theory, cyberculture, cyborg, internet

I talk to people from time to time about working in cyberspace and
successful new media participation. If I were a hipster, I might even
say, "I do SEO," but I'm not, and I don't, really. The truth is that I
don't have a good, simple, answer to the question, "How do I succeed
on-line with social media." I do have a lot of ideas on the subject, as
you might expect (many of which I've already written about here before.)
The core of my approach revolves around a conviction that word of
mouth--like offline--is the most effective way to promote events and
products in cyber-space, with the corollary that "meatspace" connections
are among the most powerful and valuable "cyberspace" resources.

During college I spent a long time reading and rereading an essay by
Samuel R. Delany, called `Times Square Red, Times Square
Blue <http://www.amazon.com/Times-Square-Blue-Sexual-Cultures/dp/0814719198/tychoish-20>`__
about the process of gentrification in Times Square and it's affect on
cross-class/cross-race social/sexual contact. The argument was that
environments and geographies that promoted situations were individuals
would come into contact (randomly, casually) promoted opportunity,
satisfying social interaction, and interesting conversations in a way
that "networking" opportunities (conferences, workshops, cocktail
parties, etc.) couldn't. In illustration of this, Delany describes
situations from talking about philosophy in the pornographic theatres of
the old Time Square to finding a vacuum cleaner repair service in the
checkout line of the grocery store. Furthermore, "contact" between
people of different classes (as was present in the pornographic theaters
of the old time square,) promotes the destabilization of class-based
injustices. [1]_

Contact has been an incredibly powerful and useful concept for me in a
number of different contexts, because it provides an method for
affecting social change in "every day life" and in creates a notion of
"politics" that's closer to "people interacting" and further from
something tied to institutions of power ("government," etc.,) which
suits my disposition. I think, largely the internet is most powerful
when it promotes something closer to "contact" and further from
something that resembles "networking." And by powerful, I mean a number
of things: most likely to positively affect people's work, provide
meaningful opportunities for commerce and social relationships, to
develop unique cultural environments.

While there are opportunities for contact on contemporary social
networking websites, they mostly specialize at helping you find people
who are actually quite like you, like people you know in real life,
people who are interested in the same things you're interested in, and
people who are friends with people you know in real life. That's not
contact, in the sense provided by Delany. [2]_

There is still, I think, contact. I think microblogging
(twitter/identi.ca) particularly with "track" features, [3]_ represents
(or did) a move away from "networking" to contact. The communities that
form around open source projects, promote contact, as they are often
interest specific, and contain members with disparate skills and
backgrounds. Once upon a time, general population/topic (ie. non-project
specific) IRC channels (chat rooms) were an immense source of contact
for their users. [4]_

--------------

I'm not sure what this means. I remain convinced that contact is a
useful and important way of looking at social interactions. I also think
it says a lot about my interests in open source. I also think that as
technologies and memes in cyberspace (eg. blogs, social networking,
microblogging) develop in ways that promote "contact," and eventually
become "networking" opportunities not that the latter is bad, but it is
an important conceptual shift. It's also quite likely that we'd be able
to see what ideas are going to be the next big thing based on the degree
to which they promote contact. There are other implications I'm sure,
but I'll leave those for another time.

.. [1] I suppose this isn't a wholly radical concept, but in any case, I
   think the "we need to talk to each other," and live in
   integrated/diverse situations is definitely a step in the right
   direction. Delany's articulation is quite useful and complete.

.. [2] Indeed I've strayed from Delany in a couple of key directions. First
   his essay(s) described contact as being a uniquely urban phenomena
   (which I've totally abandoned), and secondly something that resonates
   with sub-cultural groups (queers, poor, etc.) In the case of the
   Internet, I think this *works* but I recognize that it's a stretch.

.. [3] Once upon a time, you could receive (via IM) twitter updates for any
   keyword, even if you didn't follow the people who sent the tweets.
   This means that all of a microblogging can have a conversation with
   each other, and circumvent the isolating aspects of "social
   networking" constructs.

.. [4] By general population/topic I mean non-technical (largely) channels,
   such as rooms for fandom (fans of science fiction; and pop culture)
   rather than "working" or customer support channels. Though people
   would be drawn for a host of reasons, discussions seemed fairly
   random, and my sense is that (if my experience can be generalized
   from) that some pretty powerful friendships/connections were
   developed in these contexts.
