=============
Conversations
=============

.. post:: 2009-01-30
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: internet, cyberculture

I had an odd experience as a writer a few weeks ago. I found myself
writing "copy" rather than my more comfortable "blog post," "essay," or
"fiction story" and I learned a great deal from the experience. Mostly,
"never be a copy writer if you can help it," but I learned something
about my other writing in the process: basically I write conversations.

This makes sense on a number of levels. First, it explains why I enjoy
blogging as much as I do, and why I write for the blog in the way I do.
Blogging is a conversation, I write stuff, you think about it, you
comment. Repeat. Or I read something, and I respond with my "part" of
the conversation. Secondly, I've occasionally been told by recipients of
particularly quick emails that I "write just like I talk," which makes
sense given how I type, and how "natural" that is as a communications
medium for me. Third and finally, people who've read my fiction,
routinely comment on the dialog. [1]_

This may also be why "being a writer" (professionally, creatively) has
been a struggle. On some level the writing, even the fiction, is a means
to an end. Banging words out on the keyboard for the blog is a means to
have a conversation with you, dearest readers; writing fiction is a
means to explore ideas and conversations that I couldn't begin to
articulate except through fantasy (on some level.)

When I tried to write knitting patterns, I wrote these essays that were
basically me standing up with a finished sweater saying "so if you want
to make this, start here, and then do this ..." and so forth through the
entire sweater. On one hand they were stories, on another it was just me
*talking.*

I don't know what this means about me, what I write, or how I write.
Frankly, I'm not sure I'd like to know much more, but you can draw your
own conclusions.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1]
I suppose the lingering forth item would be that my first attempt at
graduate school was methodologically focused on narratives and "small
stories," in conversations as a means to understand "the individual
in context" as it were. But that's neither here nor there.

