==============
Cool Nicknames
==============

.. post:: 2006-10-14
   :author: tychoish

I have a couple of little stories (in the journalistic sense, rather
than the fiction or even narrative studies sense)... Here they are,
because it seems right to post them together. Also, when I got done
writing them, I realized that I had written them backwards. Such that
they give the *completely wrong* impression when read as they were
written. I did some rearranging, which I hope helps, but imagine that
these are three different entries, written 2 months apart just to be on
the safe side.

.. raw:: html

<hr width="20%" />

I know a lot of people with cool nicknames. Or incredibly cool
nicknames. Or weird nicknames. Whatever, nicknames at any rate. And I
have nothing. "Sam" is really my name, sure the paperwork says "Samuel,"
but no one other than an ophthalmologist (who called me, as an infant
"young samuel," which my parents stole, and use occasionally. I fear
this has been a mistake to share with the general public, so I'll stop.)
But the people I'm named for always went by Sam, and frankly I don't
think I'd respond to Samuel if people started calling me that. I
actually have a hard time picking my name out of a list, if it says
Samuel. There was a period a while ago, when I signed Samuel, and I'm
not sure if I still do, but I'd wager that I don't.

I'd probably hack off the -uel, if I were changing another part of my
name, which I don't intend to do, but if I spent time in a state with
easier DBA (does business as) laws, I'd probably use Sam more
officially. Frankly my one concern is that I don't want to publish
academically as Samuel, but I'll think about that later, I suppose.

Perhaps someone will find a good nickname that will stick that isn't
completely boring. Folks? anything?

I've gotten in the habit of tacking on the sylable -tron to a couple of
friends names, which has been reciprocated now and then, but it's kinda
wierd, and not a very good nick name (fun and cute, but good in an
enduring way, I'm not sure). I need to be more creative I guess...

.. raw:: html

<hr width="20%" />

I got an itching today, to remake my virtual identity. As many of you
know, I have for the past, eight, or so years used the handle "celchu19"
all over the internet. Celchu after Tycho Celchu (also here), a minor
star wars character that I really liked (and still do). Here's a little
aside, about Celchu (a word that I respond in type to as if it were my
name, I think if people said it they way I hear it in my head, I'd
probably respond to that too). If you're uninterested in the geek stuff
skip the block quoted passage. > I really like Celchu, because he was an
incredibly honest and modest character, with conviction like no other,
and he was a hotshot. If you read the wiki articles on him, you'll note
that he was a TIE fighter pilot and he was on the phone with his parents
on Alderan (the planet that the Empire blew up in ep IV) when it blew
up. He then defected (good moral character), and fought with the
Alliance. At some point he volunteered for a covert mission, and he got
caught (falibility), they tried to brainwash him, but it didn't stick,
he escaped and went back to his superiors, who **didn't believe him**,
so he sat there and helped them out until they believed that he was on
their side. There were firefighters where they put him in a support
vessel **without weapons** because they didn't trust him, so he dogged
bullets to line up shots for the other pilots. And he was a minor
character. Eventually the major story line caught up with him, and they
found out that he was telling the truth, as they were about to throw him
in jail. It was years ago that I read the book, I suspect there was
another spy, and I suppose the finer details aren't that important, but
there it is.

I remember being particularly struck by the commitment, loyalty, skill,
of the character. I guess I also liked the fact that he had a lot of
power and respect, and he wasn't a wizard in the fantasy story, which
makes him all the more outstanding. As a particularly geeky 12 year old
(there I go dating myself again) I felt like he'd be a good mascot. It's
not metaphorical for me, but it was a good name sake.

I tacked the 19 on, because the yahoo-mail address was taken for just
"celchu," and the 19 was the date (may 19th) of my birthday, so it made
more sense. And I just used it for everything, as I've continued to use
it, for the past 8 years. I played a character named Tycho Celchu on a
long defunct email third person RPG years ago (called Dark Range, while
were' in the practice of being archival). A bunch of the writing that I
did for DR, formed the core of the book that I wrote before and during
my junior year of high school (the draft of that book, *Circle Games*,
is at this very moment within reach. *CG* also, incidentally featured a
fairly self-refrential character named Tycho, though sirname Morgan,
this time.)

In addition to Celchu, both the RPG version, the *CG* character, and a
persistent admiration for the danish astronomer, Tycho Brahe. Lets face
it, Tycho is just a cool name....

So the upshot of all of this is that I've got a hankering to change many
(most?) of handles, and to develop a new default. I've gone through and
started to use the name "tychoish," as it is new and different (a change
has long been needed), its' unique (I don't have to use numbers to get a
unique registration), it references my history on a couple of important
levels. So yeah. I like it a bunch. Does this mean that I'm closing down
all of the things that are "celchu19" referent? Not on your life! But
I'm beginning a transition.

.. raw:: html

<hr width="20%" />

Another related alternate name issue is that I kinda want to try and
distance Sam, from TealArt and other internet activities. Astute readers
will notice that my last name is all but absent from this website (sure
there are cached versions, and other things hanging around, but I'd like
to avoid drawing undue attention to the connection). And a quick survey
has revealed that there are only a few embarrassing items left that use
my full name. I've changed what I can to an alias of sorts, and there
appears to be an actor named Sam K\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ who has started
chipping away at my "google domination" which I used to care about a
lot, but now, *meh*.

I'm thinking about writing for TealArt as 'tycho' rather than Sam, as
part of this. I'm not sure yet, but we'll see...

Thats all really for now, see you all around...

