============
Copying Left
============

.. post:: 2008-04-02
   :author: tychoish

My shawl pattern mentioned
`here <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/karma-call/>`__ is basically drafted.
I need to finish figuring out who took that picture, and I need to make
sure that you can publish pi shawl patterns (and use those lace
patterns) without running amok with the people who I took borrowed from.
I mean technically, there's 10% difference between what I'm doing and
what other people have published. But the truth is that I'd much rather
spend little time emailing Schoolhouse Press and Cheryl Oberle to make
sure that I'm not crossing some boundary.

Speaking of copyright, I've been spending a lot of time recently in the
Ravelry "Designers Forums," talking about copyright and copyleft, and
pattern production. This has been helpful as I've been writing an
thinking about my own patterns. There's a lot of--very
legitimate--concern for copyright in this community, but I worry that
there's too much fear going around in a way that has the potential to
antagonize the audience, and even stifle the creative process. [1]_

So if you're on ravelry, check out `the copyleft
thread <http://www.ravelry.com/discuss/designers/134594/1-25>`__ to see
what I've been up to. It's become part of my morning routine, which is
part of the reason that I haven't been blogging quite as much as I might
like.

In other news, I did some really important planning work on a fiction
project. Looks like I'm writing a story cycle. Who knew? I'm currently
planning/developing on a short adventure story several years before the
beginning of the novella I wrote last year. And even if I don't get that
done, this work will be very helpful in making that novella more
sensical. Which felt good. Writing is good stuff, and the more I
concentrate on the writing the less I can concentrate on things that I
have minimal control over. End introspection.

I'll be back throughout the day, be well.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1] Some designers were even talking about how they avoided reading other
   people's patterns when they were desiring lest they be "too"
   influenced by prior art. While you don't want to copy prior art,
   knowing it's there, being connected to the current trends and
   techniques and finding inspiration in the work of your peers isn't
   dangerous, it's simply intelligent.
