====================
Corporate Government
====================

.. post:: 2010-01-06
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: politics, economics

I was talking to someone, probably a coworker, and I was saying
something about a "government," except I slipped and said "corporation."
An easy mistake, if not a common one, perhaps, and certainly somewhat
telling. In this post I want to discuss a number of ideas that have been
lingering about in my thoughts regarding the role of corporations on
culture and technology, and the role of corporate structures on the
conveyance of cultural values.

In a lot of ways this post is the successor to my posts on: `Martian
Economics <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/martian-economics/>`__ and
`Transformational
Economics <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/praxis-and-transformational-economics/>`__

Maybe that's a bit much for one blog post. In brief:

1. **Corporations and Governments**

We can think of both corporations and governments fall into the larger
category of "formal social institutions," or "formal collective
institutions." They are both, at least in theory, productive beyond the
ability of a single individual, and both dominate the shape and course
of our lives to significant degrees.

2. **Corporate Structure and Cultural Transmission**

How corporations, and governments more obviously, are structured and
behave is--I would argue--a means of creating and transmitting cultural
values.

3. **Praxis and IBM: Autonomy and Bottom Up Organization**

I use these two examples--one fictional, one actual--as possible
illustrations of a different sorts of ways of thinking about corporate
organization. Both of these examples represent large institutions
engaged in diverse operations, that are organized (I think) with a great
number of quasi-autonomous operations and divisions, which contribute to
common project but have the freedom to operate independently and
encapsulated ways. This strikes me as a unique modality.

This leads to a lot of questions, and not very many good answers. I
suppose that's not intrinsically a bad thing.

- One of the biggest problems with corporations as far as I'm concerned
  is that by virtue of their fiduciary responsibility they have no
  obligation to operate in a sustainable manner or in the common
  interests of either their employees or the public.

  *Can the potentially harmful potentials inherent in corporate
  person-hood be offset by certain types of organization?*

- *Is there a better way to manage and organize our political society
  that balances the power of governments, corporations, that is
  sustainable and efficient?*

- We talk, and think, a lot about how the Internet affects how people
  use technology, and how the Internet creates new possibilities for
  business. *How does the Internet change the way we organize our work
  lives?* Has technology made smaller corporate operations more
  sustainable and able to compete?

- Are the alternatives loose and autonomous-cells in corporate
  organizations that might be able to address the concerns regarding
  efficiency and sustainability?

And so forth...
