======
Cosmic
======

.. post:: 2008-01-31
   :author: tychoish

I was listening today to the `Strange Horizon's Podcast Interview with
Tim
Pratt <http://www.strangehorizons.com/2007/20071029/podcast-e.shtml>`__
and he said something about his writing that was quite interesting to
me.

He was talking about his novels and some the early stories and I think
he called them "fiercely linear," that they took place over the course
of a week or a couple of weeks, and that the path of the story was very
straightforward, but that he was trying to go beyond his comfort zone
and write stories that were less linear, that took longer in "story
time."

While the whole interview was really nice, this line struck a particular
chord in my mind. This is exactly the kind of thing that I've been
trying to do for a long time, and something that I just have trouble
groking.

*Another Round,* the story that is now Station Keeping, started out as a
novel project built around a very non-linear story. Or, it was linear,
but in a very stretched sort of way. Station Keeping (and *AR*) is all
about this place--a sort of cultural battle ground--at a key moment in
the development of human civilization. And the larger story takes
several years to happen, because the conflict isn't between characters,
but rather between big ideologies. [1]_

Now there are a lot of reasons why I couldn't hold the plot *Another
Round* together four years ago (it works better as a serial, the
character's weren't developed enough, or central enough), but a big
reason was that I think I'm fiercely linear or something. I did really
well with Circle Games [2]_, which--not counting an epilogue--took like
3 weeks of story time, and the Mars story takes place over the course of
about a year, if you account for travel time, but the narration covers
maybe two weeks worth of story. It's less linear, but the scope is
probably similar.

Breakout, kind of like Another Round, is a story on a much more cosmic
scale. While it's not nearly as politically angst ridden, the story is
still pretty layered, and thats really complicated. Some day I'll be up
to the challenge of writing novels like that. Right now--particularly
since I'm more interested in getting work out on the internet, I'm
writing this hypertext, but some day, maybe, I'll write stories like
these.

In the mean time, I think I'll work on devising stories with more
concentrated plots, stretching the bounds of the "comfort zone of
linearity" rather than attempting to break it without mercy at every
opportunity.

One of these days I'll learn something. I swear.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1]
I know that there aren't really good copies of station keeping around
for you to find. Sorry about that, I'm going to be releasing a PDF of
the story so far before we get started with season 2. I promise. And
for the record, I wrote an episode this week, so it *will happen*.

.. [2]
The first novel I wrote. Tragically crappy. But then at least it was
good to get it out of the way earlier.

