========
counting
========

.. post:: 2008-03-13
   :author: tychoish

*Days on the waitlist:* 2

*Current Knitting Progress:* Over the half way mark on the sleeve.

I have from time to time suggested that there is a parallel between
knitting sweaters and writing novels: they're substantive projects, they
are in many ways the perfection of their respective crafts, and it is is
my hope that both are able to stand on their own discrete merits. Also,
both sweaters and novels--at least in the way that I practice both--are
very much the product of several hundred years of traditional
development that saw dramatic revision and modernization throughout the
20th century.

It's at this point that I should probably draw an uncomfortable
comparison between Elizabeth Zimmerman and someone like Toni Morrison or
Kurt Vonnegut, but lets just pass that by.

In any case, finishing this sweater, at the moment, feels a lot like
finishing a novel project. In this case, it's taken about as long, and
though there are many things that are likely more deserving of my time,
I'm looking forward

Conveniently, or not so, I'm battling some sort of perverse left-wrist
pain. I think it's computer related, but it's bazaar. It's off-center
(pinky side) of the wrist and it's sort of dull. Which is, as far as I
can tell, very much *not* carpal tunnel which is centered and a sharp
pain. I think it's computer related (that's why this post comes out so
late in the day), knitting stress/pain manifests in the other wrist and
is more typically carpal tunnel feeling, but I'm not sure. *Sigh* In any
case, after some convincing, ibuprofen and ice seem to have knocked it
out mostly.

In other news, I've realized that my spinning wheel is slated to arrive
in two weeks, or so. I'm excited.

If my wrist holds up, I'll be in touch.

Onward and Upward!

