=============================================
Critical Futures Futures and Curation Futures
=============================================

.. post:: 2009-03-25
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: fiction, science-fiction, writing

I posted a new story on `Critical
Futures <http://criticalfutures.com/>`__ today. It's another one from
the Knowing Mars novella that I wrote a year ago and that I had been
posting previously. After a much too long break from posting fiction,
I've decided that I have enough brain space to work through some
projects there and bring it back to life. While I think my first six
months was an unparalleled learning experience, I think a different
strategy is in order.

My goal/intention is to slip into a Monday/Thursday schedule, of posting
400-600 words rather than the every work-day of 200-400 words. The word
counts are mostly for my own thoughts and less of a hard guideline. It's
also helpful, because I think, that even if I run out of my backlog,
which seems pretty likely to happen pretty soon. I feel like I could
probably write the requisite 800-1200 words on Saturday/Sunday morning
along with my non-fiction essays, no matter what my life is looking
like. I'm not sure what the future will hold, or what exactly is going
to happen with my fiction, but it's going to be there.

One of my background projects, however (and I'll write about the theory
here in an essay,) is generate a few "curatorial" pages for critical
futures (and I suppose for tychoish as well). Basically I want to give
people an easier "in" to the stories that I post on the web. This
includes more creative templates and some hand-compiled guide pages, and
as websites become home to more and more information my thought is that
curation is the only real solution to this, and that, in that, it's
really the next big thing for content. But that's another thought for
another time...

Check out the new `Critical Futures <http://criticalfutures.com/>`__
story, "Knowing Mars, ` <http://criticalfutures.com/2009/03/>`__"

Thanks for reading, and do tell your friends/submit fiction if that's
your thing.

