=============================
Cyberpunk in the 21st Century
=============================

.. post:: 2007-10-26
   :author: tychoish

I had a scene in the novella set in Casablanca a hundred years after
they built a dome over the city.

I have to admit that the decision to put a scene there, was mostly
random, mostly because I didn't want to put it in Paris or Oslo, or some
other European city. But as I've been thinking about it, it's an
interesting idea, to suggest that Northern Africa, might be the home of
the next wave of cosmopolitan meccas. I particularly like the way that,
particularly in a cyberpunk context, it creates a parallel with the
"middle ages."

I read a forum post somewhere on the internet (that I can't find
anymore) that attacked the people who say "cyberpunk is dead," by saying
that "cyberpunk represented for them what could have been, and what
might yet be," which frankly I think is a load of nostalgic hooey. We
can't write stories today that are cyberpunk in the way that people
could write stories 20 years ago that were cyberpunk. The cyberpunk
"moment" if you will, has passed.

But it's not dead. There are to my mind two distinct flavors of
cyberpunk that live on. The sort of theoretical decedents that say that
there's an underbelly to technological progress, that explores the
possibility of subculture in the bright and shiny future. And then
there's the aesthetic side that thinks that DNIs are freekin' amazing
and psychedelic virtual realities are cool and so forth.

And before you say, "*but tycho, who in their right mind would take as
the starting point of a sub-genre, all of the fluff and none of the meat
of a preceding field?*\ " And it's not as absurd as you'd think.
Steampunk is basically all aesthetic and no real meat from anywhere
else, and frankly it's pretty damn awesome. The lesson is that we make
our (theoretical) meat pretty much regardless of the setting, so if you
have cyberpunks in North Africa, working on an internet that doesn't
exist and will never exist, it works (or can), if you play your cards
right. Which is always the case, no matter how failed (or not) your
premise is.

What I think is more interesting from my own persecutive, is that
despite how ardently theoretical I tend to be, I think I fall into the
aesthetic camp, rather than the theoretical one. Contemporary
theoretical cyberpunk tends to be much more moment specific, more
grounded in current existence, current theoretical issues, and less
involved in the issues that surround technological development and the
culture-technology relationship.

The other factor in my own work is that I see science fiction, even
futuristic science fiction as being a historical project. I'm interested
in North Africa as a cosmopolitan center in my futuristic stories,
because of its history as such, not particularly because I think that
it's likely to come to pass.

I think it's incredible that Cory Doctorow and I can agree that futurism
has virtually no place in science fiction for such completely different
reasons.

Tomorrow is a writing day.

