===========================
Dear Blogger: Stop Sucking!
===========================

.. post:: 2006-10-02
   :author: tychoish

As I'm sure you all know from my incessant babbling about technology,
I've become a strong proponent of the RSS reader. It's, as near as I can
tell the best way to collect information for later consumption in a
manner that is easy to read, reliable in an environment where internet
connections might not be constant, and I can scan an item in the feed
reader in about half the time it would take me to read the same amount
of content in a web page. So it's a great thing.

I do have an annoyance to report though. Blogger, which for a long time,
I would avoid reading almost entirely, has instituted a feed system,
using the Atom standard/spec. I initially thought I'd hate atom, but it
turns out that atom feeds are more likely to be full text (I rather
despise partial text feeds which only capture a very small amount of the
joy that is syndication, with little if any to benefit to site
administrators) So I've started to read Blogger powered blogs. Rock on,
right?

Well no. Seems blogger trigger's updates seemingly at will, so the
time-stamps get refreshed, and my news-reader thinks all the entries are
updated, when in fact, blogger can't keep the date right, and I end up
having to scan through more to realize that I've read the same article
half a dozen times before. Thumbs down.

The second complaint I have about RSS, is that my reader won't download
image files, so I have to have a live connection to read an entry that
has images posted with the entry, which means I have to be connected to
read knitting blogs, which I see as a disadvantage. Anyone have a fix
for this?

That's about it for now. I'd like to be entertained at the fact that I
had a brain death moment last night, and then proceeded to write an
entry about evolutionary theory and teleology in developmental
psychology. Clearly it was an odd form of brain death. Well, onto other
projects this evening, I just wanted to get the syndication frustrations
out there.

Cheers, tycho

