====================
Delicious Aftertaste
====================

.. post:: 2010-12-18
   :author: tychoish


Apparently Delicious is shutting down. This is either not news to you,
because you've been hearing people natter on about it for days, or you
don't have a clue what Delicious is. Which is more likely, because it's
probably being shut down for under-use, which means most people don't
have a clue. Right. It's a website that allows you to post links
"bookmarks" and then tag them, and then search for new links based on
tag, with *everyone's* links so you can discover whats happening based
on what everyone is posting and tagging with what. Nifty idea. It's also
worth pointing out that Delicious was one of the first big web 2.0
startups, and got to the whole idea of the social web pretty early.

Anyway, enough history, and on to the news of the day.

`tofu <http://identi.ca/tofu>`__ said "`with all of this talk of
delicious, I am surprised that I have heard little about creating a
decentralized social bookmark
alternative <http://identi.ca/notice/60655625>`__\ " which is a good
thought and echo's a slightly more complex proposal that `marn made on
the topic the other
day <http://marnanel.livejournal.com/1473056.html>`__.

In short, leaders of the contemporary revolution in federated network
technology ("web services should be federated and exportable so that
everyone's data doesn't get hosed when one website closes down, and
people can share data with friends who uses different services") are
saying "let's not make this mistake again, if we're going to build an
alternative, let's make it better."

And I think, in typical me-fashion, I'm
`saying <http://identi.ca/notice/60655712>`__: is social bookmarking
still a thing? Have twitter and identi.ca replaced our need for this
kind of service? The problem I think lays in the fact that there's *so
much Internet* that services like delicious very quickly become "lets
catalog everything" and as a result "bookmarking" as a concept isn't
very useful for sharing links and exposing information to new audiences.

Having said that, I think the notion of writing a tool to use identi.ca
or a `status.net <http://status.net>`__ installation to replace
delicious functionality seems like a great idea. Similarly, while it's
not federated `pinboard.in <http://pinboard.in>`__ has been around for a
while and while it's not federated, (or open source, particularly,) I
like just about everything they've done.

Ponder that!
