============
Dental Floss
============

.. post:: 2005-06-23
   :author: tychoish

My life has otherwise been proceeding as it has been, so I don't have
anything ground breaking to report to you all. Ho hum.

I thought I'd offer you all some noes on my knitting/fiber art progress.

I finished the green shawl. I did end up needing a bit more of the
Zephyr, but I think it worked out just fine, and frankly you can't
really see it. I still have to block the shawl, but it's really nifty.

In the mean time I'm working on a shawl using a very royal blue tencel
yarn. It has the dental floss look at the moment, but I think it'll be
quite nice. I'm embarking on a very nifty lace pattern, supposedly
Japanese in origin, but I'm not really aware of Japanese knitting
traditions, so I think it's just inspired and all. From Nancy Oberly's
*Folk Shawls* book.

I finished spinning the merino roving. this was a massive project... two
pounds of yarn. I'll probably hand dye it all and get something really
cool. I foresee a sweater. It's a little thick and thin, but I think if
I knit it tightly the texture will be really interesting. and blocking
can do wonderful things, and I have a lot of it.

As a shorter interim spinning project, I've begun work on a small amount
of silk and wool roving, that I hope to spin into heavy lace lace or
some sort of fingering weight yarn. Single ply, if I can set the twist
enough so that it it'll be knit-able in as singles. If not I'll roll a
center pull ball and two-ply it.

After that, I'm either going to start spinning from my stash of really
pretty corriedale, or from some brown alpaca. I have some soy silk at
home, but I think that will make far better winter spinning. My logic is
that if spinning is a year round activity, you don't really need to spin
yarn seasonally. That is that, you don't need to spin fine light
cellulose fibers in the summer for summer knitting. In fact, if you're
trying to make yarn to knit with, you'd be better off spinning winter
yarns in the summer and summer yarns in the winter. But then I suppose
it doesn't matter much.

Anyway.

There you have it. Cheers.

