=============================
Desks and Stationary Mobility
=============================

.. post:: 2011-04-04
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: productivity, cyborg

This is a post about mobile technology in an unconventional sense. I
think I'm probably an extreme "mobile" technology user: I ride *a lot*
commuter rail and use my laptop extensively on the train. Then, I work
on a laptop all day. In the evening, I often do at least a little
additional work, again on the same laptop. There is, after all, always
writing (like this post!) to fill any remaining free time.

I'm not a terribly typical mobile user. My main "mobile device" is a
little ThinkPad (and sometimes a larger ThinkPad,) running Linux and a
lot of Lisp (emacs and otherwise.) It's not ideal for every situation:
there are times when I just can't bare to open the laptop again or it's
unfeasible (and there's always the Kindle for times like those.) Most of
the time it works well.

It's hard to omit discussion of the "tablet" and the iPad. For me, the
fact that tablets are not general purpose computers is a huge deterrent.
This is probably not the case for everyone, though there are lots of
shades to this debate. I think the more interesting question is not "do
people need general purpose tablets?" and more "how will more ubiquitous
embeded-type systems effect the way people will approach 'general
purpose' computing environments" from here on out? Honestly, this in
computing practice has already happened, but I think it will continue to
pose important questions for users and developers as it continues.

The struggle, for me, revolves less around the question "how do I work
remotely?" and more around "how do I *also* work when I'm at a desk?"
The adjustment can be hard: For a while, I was so used to working on the
train, and in random chairs, that I had a hard time focusing if the
computer wasn't actually on my lap. Bad ergonomics is only the start of
this.

The current solution is to set up desks and workstations that use the
same laptops and systems so that I'm not perpetually switching between
fixed computers and mobile computers. I'm also keen for these desks to
have their own appeal: bigger monitors, nice keyboards, and easy to
attach power cords. I've also attempted to tie together all of the "I'd
like to switch between laptop-mode and desk-mode," functions (e.g.
network connection, monitor attachment, window layout) into easy to
trigger operations, so I can get started more quickly. Nice. Seamless.
Efficient.

The lessons: There are many ways to maintain technical (cyborg)
coherence despite/during geographical movement and sometimes that
technology isn't particularly cutting edge. Sometimes the best way to
break yourself of a habit you don't like is to play a game with yourself
where you establish a more attractive option. Finally, a very small
change or automation can be enough to take something difficult and make
it much easier or something unpleasantly and make it workable.

