===============
different modes
===============

.. post:: 2008-02-16
   :author: tychoish

I've done a few things differently today, which leads me to think that I
am on the road to some sort of recovery. Still stressed, and I think
what at happened is that I'm finally realizing how little there is to
do, and in light of this, I'm able to let go a little.

In any case I've done a few new and interesting things. I borrowed a
very nice drop spindle from my mother. This means, despite my annoyance
with knitting at the moment (and my hand pain/ache), I now have some
sort of craft thing that I can do upstairs. Also, spindling is fun, if
slow. Someone's going to get a damn nice skein of lace weight at some
point. Drop-spindling is something new for me, really (I've done it as a
learning experience, but never--really--with the intention of making
something), and I think I need new things in my life at the moment.

I also finished spinning the singles for my second 80-90 gram skein of
fingering/sport weight yarn on the spinning wheel. Good stuff. I bought
2 pounds of BFL at the Yarn Barn in December, and I'm hoping that I'll
spin through what I have by the time my wheel comes.

Also, I did some tweaking to tealArt, and I think I have the design
almost nailed down. You'll notice a few changes around the edges on
tychoish, which unifies both sites. I'm still hoping that
`dave <http://www.soliloqueer.com/>`__ will design me a nice little 100
pixel wide banner for the top corner of tA. In any case, I feel like
this project is back on the rails, and in control: which--like so many
things--it hadn't for quite some time.

The main thing to do now is get the main page of TealArt.com to work and
function in a really cool way that will hopefully make the site function
as a more cohesive whole. While I really like what I've been able to do
with tychoish.com and I'm generally pleased with the response, I think
long term I want to produce a site that isn't so ego centric. There are
things that I want to do with this internet-stuff that I don't want to
be *all about me.* Just saying.

So doing these things is pretty productive for me, and it's a change of
pace, which is what I think I need at the moment.

Anyway, hunger strikes.

Onward and Upward!

