===================
Digital Collections
===================

.. post:: 2009-01-09
   :author: tychoish

I have a lot of digital *stuff* certainly more than any of my computers
have storage space for at this point, though to be fair we're talking
about 500 gigabytes of various collections (music, video, backups,
documents). Particularly given the price disks by the present moment in
time, we're not talking about anything too absurd. During my recent
computer juggling interlude, I realized that hard drive space wasn't
nearly the issue I used to think it was, and I suspect my situation
isn't terribly unique for lots of geeks, and space crunches are not
often a technological problem, but rather a user problem.

During numerous conversations with other geeks, it's become clear that
while we all have massive collections of files that take up lots of
space (on the order of hundreds of gigabytes) most of use only a
percentage of that space for about 98% of our computing. Everyone seems
to have *ahem* come into large collections of files: copies of *ahem*
our DVD collections, recordings of television shows, music collections
and the like. All these things take up a lot of space. The files that we
use day in and day out? Much less. Even if you count my email, the full
backup of my blog, my personal wiki, and everything else, we're talking
under half of a gigabyte, give or take.

So what gives?

There are a couple of mediating factors that bear consideration:

First the emergence of the "netbook" Recognizes this fact. Netbooks have
hard drives which float between 4 and 16 gigabytes. It's not a lot of
space, but it's enough that as long as you're just working with emal,
and a selection of documents that it's enough to keep you busy for a few
days, if not months (I mean really now folks). We're also at a point
where storage is getting more available and cheaper faster than our
collections can grow.

The second factor that leads to this is the fact that "content" (videos
and music) don't have particularly reliable distribution channels. If a
TV show uh, appears on your hard drive, the chance of it appearing again
is often tedious, and pretty slim. So our inclination is to save it.
This ties into all sorts of really multifaceted issues about data
ownership, copyright, and digital distribution, but it's also partially
a user issue.

--------------

A few months ago, I was convinced that given fears about backups, backup
reliability, and verification, and the dropping price of storage online,
either through `Amazon S3 <http://aws.amazon.com/s3/>`__, or hell even
something like Dreamhost (not in a web accessible folder) would probably
have been as effective as having disks yourself. I'm not sure this is
still the case, particularly with how cheep disks are (which makes
redundancy easier). Also I think there's a point between one and two
terabytes where even the worst digital pack-rats recognize that such
archives are reasonably pointless.

I guess in light of this, I guess the lingering questions are: do you
have a big digital collection? How big? And do you have any particular
strategy for dealing with these files?

Onward and Upward!

