==============
Disciplinarity
==============

.. post:: 2006-01-04
   :author: tychoish

This post is my attempt to lay out some of the work that Heather and I
accomplished at the end of the semester, but never got around to posting
in a vaguely coherent form here. It's a post that will help share our
definition, as it were, of "queer" in our usage, and how we're going to
go about completing our project.

"Queer", as we're using it represents a theoretical mo(ve)ment which
seeks to destabilize and trouble normative structures, social practices,
and definitions, to expand and change the manner in which we define the
world and each other, and furthermore trouble the notion of
"definition." This mo(ve)ment is inextricably to an understanding of
sexuality, queerness, in the mode of Gayle Rubin's "Thinking Sex," in
many ways this second definition positions queer as both the product of
and parallel to feminism, and a functioning identity umbrella for people
who sleep with people they're "not supposed to" (or in a manner that
they're "not supposed to").

One one down, one to go:

Basically, each week (or so) we're going to look at a given selection of
poetry and/or theory, dividing it up as needed. Our readings will
certainly overlap, there will be a lot of material that we'll both read,
but in order to cover as much ground as we can we'll split some of the
material up. We'll post notes/summaries/interaction here, with what we
read. During the first half of the semester, we'll have more reading,
we'll have fun with the material. Clearly the "project" will loom large
in our thoughts, but we won't be drafting or even outlining at this
point. By a week or two before spring break, we'll have produced a "plan
of attack" for completing the symposium paper, and the final essay.
Which we will spend break, and the remainder of the semester completing
according to plan. April 13th, is the spring symposium day. The semester
ends in early May.

There you have it. Stay tuned.

