========================
Distance from the Divine
========================

.. post:: 2010-03-05
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: sacred-harp, singing, faith, spirituality

When I talk about Sacred Harp singing with my friends from college, they
all look at me like I'm crazy. "Right, I go sing 18th century hymns set
to music in the 19th century (and later,) with my hippie and queer
friends in quasi-archaic harmonies. It's a blast!" This isn't my
tradition, both in the sense that I don't come from a sacred harp
singing family, and in the sense that I come from a particularly
unobservant Jewish family.

There's something about Sacred Harp, that I think is hard to describe.
Everyone comes to it for different worlds, and there are a lot of people
who grew up with it and/or identify as Christian in the community. While
I think most people who sing Sacred Harp find it a deeply fulfilling
experience, for many its as much about the shared experience, the
guttural experience of the chords, and the "sacred/special space" as it
is about the texts. This is something that I think is pretty difficult
to explain to someone who hasn't felt a singing.

I `mentioned a while ago my interest in writing hymns in the tradition
of the sacred
harp <http://criticalfutures.com/2010/02/status-update/>`__, and I don't
have anything to present to you yet, or even some example of what I'm
playing with, as I haven't actually constructed anything. I do have the
following observation.

The texts and aesthetics of the Sacred Harp is encapsulated with what I
think is probably a not very contemporary view of the divine. In my
reading, the texts display a relationship to the divine that is distant
and detached. I might even say reserved and tentative. The speakers in
the text are not individuals but more collectively constituted
persons--this fits well with the way the music is sung--and the speakers
generally do not interact with or speak to the divinity directly, except
possibly to give thanks or appreciation. Like the harmonies themselves,
the texts are spare and stark; indeed I suspect their simplicity makes
the tunes easier to sing (words are almost always easier to sing than
shapes,) while being very careful to not distract from the tunes.

As I said, this isn't my tradition, at all, in addition to the
structural constraints of the form (common meter, for the most part,) I
think the stylistic constraints present the larger challenge. I'm trying
to figure out how to write text that isn't cloyingly spiritual, and that
fits my own worldview (such as it is,) but that also respects this kind
of spiritual aesthetic, for lack of a better term. I've been reading up
on various religious phenomena, contemplative orders, and the Religious
Society of Friends. Because it seems appropriate.

As is, I think always the case, minimalism is always a lot harder than
it looks. I'll keep you all posted!

