======================
Documentation Rhetoric
======================

.. post:: 2012-08-03
   :author: Sam Kleinman
   :tags: technical-writing, writing

Other than shortening sentences, inserting lists, and using document
structure, there are a couple of "easy edits" that I make to most
documents that other send to me for review:

1. Remove all first person, both singular and plural.

2. Remove all passive sentences, typically by making the sentences more
imperative.

In practice these changes are often related.

Expunge the First Person
------------------------

Removing the first person is important less because it's "more formal"
to avoid the first person and more because it's always unclear in
documentation: Who are "we," and who is "I"? Should I read "I" as "me"
or as the author of the documentation? What if my experiences and
environment isn't like "ours?" While we can resolve these confusion
points pretty quickly it gives users another set of information that
they must track. And given that technical subjects can be difficult
without confusing language, there's no reason to make things more
confusing.

People tend to think that this makes their documentation "friendlier,"
"personable," or "intimate." People used to interacting directly with
users (i.e. people doing user support) are particularly susceptible to
first person problems. In support cases, that little bit of personal
touch is *incredibly* valuable and goes a long way toward making people
feel comfortable.

Those people are wrong. Don't do it. Speak simply. Write about the
product and the processes you're documenting, not yourself. Convey
facts, not opinions. Provide context, not perspective. If you're writing
the official documentation for a product, your perspective is obvious to
readers; if you're not writing the official documentation, that's also
apparent and probably not your job to disclaim.

Use Good Verbs
--------------

Passive sentences and weak verbs are a huge problem. Huge. People with
science and engineering back rounds seem to prefer passive sentences
because they think that passive sentences convey objectivity, and that
this objectivity is desirable.

Passive sentences do convey a sense of objectivity, and there are some
cases where there's no way to avoid describing a property of a thing
except passively. That doesn't make the passive voice generally
acceptable. Related to the reason above, passive voice tends to provide
a level of "syntatic indirection," and means that complicated sentences
become unnecessarily difficult to comprehend.

In documentation, unlike some other forms, it's possible (and
desirable!) to use imperative verbs, which provides some relief. One of
the main projects of documentation is to inculcate "best practices"
(i.e. values and conventions,) in users. Imperative verbs are great for
this purpose.

In short: *Do it!*

