=================
Doing Wikis Right
=================

.. post:: 2009-12-07
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing, cyborg

`Wiki <http://c2.com/cgi/wiki>`__ started as this weird idea that seemed
to work against all odds. And then it seemed `to really
work <http://www.wikipedia.com/>`__. And now wiki is just a way to make
and host a website without taking full responsibility for the generation
of *all* the content. To say wiki is to say "collaboration" and
"distributed authorship," in some vague handwaving way.

But clearly, getting a wiki "right," is more difficult than just
throwing up a wiki engine and saying "*have at it people*." Wiki's need
a lot of stewardship, and care, that I think people don't realize off
the bat. Even wikis that *seem* to be organic and loosey-goosey.

I have this wiki project, at the `Cyborg Institute
Wiki <http://wiki.cyborginstitute.com/>`__ that I've put some time into,
but not, you know a huge amount of time particularly recently. Edits
have been good, when they've happened. But all additions have come from
people who I have asked specifically for their contributions. I don't
think this is a bad thing but this experience does run counter to the
"throw up a wiki and people will edit it" mindset.

I've started (or restarted?) [a wiki that I set up for the
OuterAlliance][oa-wik]. You can find out more about the OA there (as it
gets added) or on the `OuterAlliance
Blog <http://www.outeralliance.org/>`__. Basically, O.A. is a group of
Science Fiction writers, editors, and critics (and agents? do we have
agents?) who are interested in promoting the presentation and visibility
of positive queer characters and themes in science fiction
(literature). [1]_

In any case, the group needed a wiki, and unlike the `C2
Wiki <http://c2.com/cgi/wiki>`__, the people who are likely to
contribute to this wiki are probably not hackers in the conventional
sense. As I've sort of taken this wiki project upon myself, I've been
trying to think of ways to ensure success in wikis.

--------------

Ideas, thoroughly untested:

Invite people to contribute at every opportunity, but not simply by
saying "please add your thoughts here." Rather, write in a way that
leaves spaces for other people to interject ideas and thoughts.

Create stubs and pages where people can interject their own thoughts,
but "red links" (or preceding question marks in my preferred wiki
engine) are just as effective as stubs in many cases. The thing is that
wikis require a lot of hands on attention. While stubs don't require a
lot of attention and maintenance, they require some. My favored approach
recently is to make new pages when the content in the current page grows
too unwieldy and to resist the urge to make new pages except when that
happens.

Reduce hierarchy in page organization unless totally needed. You don't
want potential collaborators to have to thing very much about "where
should I put *this thing*." The more hierarchy there is the greater the
chance that they'll have to either think about it and/or that they'll
not find a place to put their contribution and then not contribute. This
is undesirable.

Hierarchy is problematic for most organizational systems, but in most
wiki systems, it is really easy and attractive to divide things into
lots of layers of hierarchy because it makes sense at the time. The
truth is, however, that this *almost never* makes sense a couple of
weeks or months down the road. Some hierarchy makes sense, but it'll
take you hundreds of thousands of words to really need 3 layers of
hierarchy in most wikis.

Leaders and instigators of wiki projects also, should know that creating
and having a successful wiki represents the output of a huge amount of
effort. There's a lot of figuring out what people mean to say and making
sure that their words actually convey that. There's a lot of making sure
people's comments really do belong on the page where they put them. And
more often than not leaders put in the effort to write a huge amount of
"seed" content as an example to contributors in the future. It's not a
bad gig, but it's also not the kind of hting you can just sit back and
let happen.

--------------

Other thoughts? Onward and Upward!

.. [1] It's an awesome group, and a useful and powerful mission, and I think
   the OA has learned a lot from, and is well connected to some of the
   activity around anti-racism, that's been lingering in science fiction
   over the last year to eighteen months as a result of the "RaceFail"
   hubbub of a year ago. The fact that there's this kind of activity in
   and around Science fiction is one of the reasons that I love being a
   part of this genre.
