====================
Doing versus Talking
====================

.. post:: 2013-04-02
   :author: tychoish

In [[On my Return to Blogging\|/rhizome/on-my-return-to-blogging]] post
I attributed the fact that I'd taken a break from blogging because I
wanted to get out and *do* things rather than just spend my free time
writing and thinking about things.

A Critique
----------

The problem with this kind of statement is that it evokes a certain kind
of anti-intellectualism: *thinking isn't as good as doing things*, which
is counter productive. Actions, creation, feed and grow out of thinking
(and vice versa.)

In light of this it's difficult to re-calibrate ones practice without on
the one hand taking an anti-intellectual stance or becoming too
ungrounded in practice.

Cogitative Side Effects
-----------------------

I read an article a while back (source lost to the depths of the
internet,) that mentioned the following effect; when you talk about
something publicly the recognition and validation you get from talking
about it is pretty much the same as the recognition and validation you'd
get from actually doing something. The result is, if you talk about
doing something, you become less likely to actually do it because you've
already experienced most of the gratification of doing something.

(Sorry for the poor translation.)

In any case, it seems plausible, and certainly worth testing. So when I
say "I want to spend time doing things," rather than theorizing about
possible future projects or talking about things I want to work on, as
has been my wont, I'm just not.

This is an interesting conundrum for free software/open source: how do
you start developing a project in a community centered way without
shooting yourself in the proverbial foot. Sometimes it works (e.g. `GNU
MediaGoblin <http://mediagoblin.org/>`__,) but often people hack a
working prototype (and often a lot more) before talking about the
project. There are too many examples to list.

There are also a large number of examples of projects that started that
languish because they were clearly announced too soon. On the other
hand, maybe early-public discussion or announcements is purely
epiphenomenal and early public discussion is just a symptom of an always
already weak project, that you're more interested in talking about
something that doing something. (Which might just prove the point?)

The Take Away
-------------

-  Don't blog about something until it exists, and is in a form that
you'd be willing to share and discuss.

*Corollary:* code names are probably the same as real names.

-  Strive for balance between "project work," and meta-work. The ideal
proportions are unclear.

-  Avoid anti-intellectualism when possible.



