=============
Done Knitting
=============

.. post:: 2007-11-30
   :author: tychoish

So, I finished the cap that I was working on earlier evening. I'm not
sure that I blogged about this, but I've been itching to knit hats for a
while now (the old hats were 2+ years old, and hats wear out and get
icky and lost faster than say, sweaters).

It's nice. black, understated. It'll get a lot of wear.

I had been putting the Morocco sweater on hold until after the finals
push was over, but with the hat over, I'm without knitting projects.
November has been the month of finishing things: the socks, the hat, the
two plain sweaters from this summer.

The end result of this, is that I don't really have anything to knit.
There is of course the stranded sock that I was working on in July that
is in desperate need of some ripping back, and it's a sock, and I'm very
much *not* in a sock mood.

So I think I'm going back to knitting on the sweater. It's weird to not
have projects underway. It's been so long since I've cast anything on,
for real. Weird.

--------------

Oh, Right! `Joe <http://www.queerjoe.com/>`__, you'll be happy about
this. I have the grey sweater to knit. I think I'm going to go pull that
out of the pile and take it with me to class today. It's good and
mindless.

Actually, one thing I fear with the grey sweater is that if I work too
much more on it, I'll be in danger of being back in sleeve hell, and
those sleeves, with their plain stocking stitch might just send me to
the loony bin. I'm thinking of running a cable or three down the top of
the sleeve and making a shoulder strap out of it. Having said that, I
haven't actually knit a stitch on that since say, April, and I haven't
even looked at it since early June, so I'll tell you later when I have
have more... empirical data.

Onward and Upward!

