======================================
DRM, eBooks, iTunes, and the Next iPod
======================================

.. post:: 2006-10-15
   :author: tychoish

So I just read an article, that reviewed a new ebook reader (which seems
to have a really nifty display technology) and comes to the conclusion
that books won't succeed because the reading technology isn't as good as
paper (he's mostly right, though this is the secondary argument), but
that content producers can't manage the DRM the right way. DRM is copy
protection, that restricts users ability to rip off and redistribute
digital files, and eat dangerously into the publisher's (and artists)
money making ability.

We've always had some sort of copy protection, with paper printing, it
takes the form of hassle. You can photo-copy entire books (and most of
us, particularly in the academy, I suspect), but it's a hassle, and I
know I would generally rather fork over the 10 bucks and get a book out
of the operation, than spend a a long time with a photocopy machine that
never works. When books are out of print, particularly short, and time
is short, it happens. I doubt very much that I'm crimping anyone's
profit margin though. It's possible to scan in books, (I've restrained
myself to articles,) but the process is tedious as well, and again
hassle and tedium keep the work safe.

There is no such thing as a full proof DRM, any code can be cracked, or
even worked around. Like with print, the key for content producers, is
to make it easier to buy the content from the source, than it is to
"beat" the DRM. Perhaps the key to the ultimate DRM system is not one
that is *particularly* harsh and limiting, but one that makes it hard
enough to "work around" the protection that it's worth buying it new.

Lets take the iTunes music store. There's one really easy way to beat
the encryption of the itunes music store: burn the songs to cd (as a
music CD) and then import the songs back into iTunes: DRM disappears.
And now you have a copy to play in your home stero system, or in your
car. If you don't want to waste the CD media, use a CD-RW and you're
still DRM free. The thing about this, is that it's a pain in the ass,
given that you can play the song of 5 different computers at the same
time (and as long as you keep back ups, if an authorized computer
crashes with one of your five authorizations, you can reauthorize all
the computers, which also gives you a way to "beat" the drm with a flash
drive and an unnetworked machine... But you get the idea. The other
**big** selling point of the system, is that if you're on an authorized
machine (which we've established is easy enough) and you've bought a
song, it behaves *exactly* like a song that isn't copy protected, to the
point where you would forget that there's copy protection. The system
isn't full proof, but it throws up road blocks that say, "hey, wouldn't
you rather pay an extra buck to not have to go through with this?" and
the answer is frequently "yes."

The other key for successful digital content is price/feature benefits.
Digital media, is "better" than print media, it takes up less space, it
is searchable, more readily indexable, and can be interactive, among
other benifits (depending on what kind of content it is). Digital
content must harness these features, otherwise, why bother. Beyond that,
the content is *significantly* cheaper to produce and distribute than
traditional media, because there isn't any material costs. All you have
to pay is production costs, royalties, and bandwidth/server costs. The
first two expenses are the same, the second costs a fraction of what the
paper does. So digital media, I think, should be cheaper than the
traditional format. Again, in iTunes, songs cost a buck, albums cost 10
dollars, with some allowances made for EPs and the like.

Even still, I think songs should cost even less, as I suspect that even
after royalties and hosting, cost is between 10-30 cents, if that, but a
dollar is ok. Would-be-ebook producers should take note. There is a
magic price point, for this, and I suspect it's under 5 bucks for a
book, probably more like 2.50 or 3. Remember for a moment that book
files are *tiny*, easily 25%, and in most cases less than 10% of the
average iTunes song, so distribution is *even easier*. Then, If ebooks
are ever to succeed they have to be affordable enough, they have to be
full featured, and any DRM has to be transparent and unobtrusive. I'm
just saying....

--------------------

The last iPod update was really incremental. Lots of folks were
predicting a phone, widescreen, or wireless capabilities, and we didn't
see that. I frankly can't see apple getting into the phone market, I
think that we'll see bluetooth eventually on an iPod, but that's not a
major step up in functionality. Likewise, a larger screen is probably in
store (likely in terms of pixels rather than area), but I suspect that
keeping a small form factor is more important that huge strides in
functionality. If you want a much larger screen, get an iTV or some
similar TV integration device. The iPod succeeds because it does one
thing *really* well, not because it is the height of convergence
technology. The next big feature of the iPod, will fit into this
somehow. Why? Because it's apple, and that's what they do.

So having said that: I think the next feature will be etext capability.
Here are some reasons:

- iPod already has limited PIM (contacts, calendar, notes) functionality.
  Apple appears to be of the opinion that entering data in a mobile device
  is less then effective on all sorts of levels, but that viewing it
  whilst mobile, is much more effective. Because of that I don't suspect
  that they will go down the PDA road, they're already there.

- iTunes has functionality for managing PDFs, it's a rather dinky feature
  for it to be coded just for the odd album booklet, so there's probably
  more code just under the surface.

- If they're going to make the screen a little bit bigger for videos which
  I think is a demand (if you made the scroll wheel a bit smaller, you
  could probably fit a 2.5x2 screen on an ipod in the same form, you have
  a pretty good sized screen for eBook reading.

- The iPod is a device that is *built* around scrolling, and this is the
  main control that you would want in an ebook device. It seems like all
  the pieces are there.

- By establishing themselves as a successful content provider for music
  and television content, I think Apple will likely be able to--through
  the iTunes (anyone else waiting for the rename to: iMedia?) convince the
  print publishers that they have the market, and DRM system that will
  make content producers willing to come on board. And this is the key, of
  course. It always is.

We'll see.

Cheers!
