===============
Dual Head Setup
===============

.. post:: 2009-02-17
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: technology, cyborg

Before I made the switch to linux, my only computer was a single
macbook. Great machine, and in addition to not being able to (really)
use `Awesome <http://awesome.naquadah.org/>`__, I was pretty frustrated
by the lack of screen space. I was (and do) need to filter through lots
of different kinds of documents and I felt like I was spending half my
time sorting through any of the several dozen (!) windows that I kept
open. As a result one of my chief requirements for the new system was
having the ability to run a 2 monitor (dual head) setup.[^DH] I was even
willing to sacrifice [1]_ some raw power for this.

So here I was with a dual head setup, and a sort of lackluster idea of
how to use all this new space, aside from the visceral knowledge that
needed *more room*. I've tried `a few
things <http://tychoish.com/posts/n-plus-one/>`__ to try and use the
space, but I continue to feel as if I haven't found the *right* way to
use this space.

I should preface this by saying a word about `my window management
software <http://awesome.naquadah.org>`__: it revolves around the notion
of "tags," which are similar to virtual desktops, so while I only look
at 1-5 windows on each monitor there are many more than 5 windows open
and running at anyone time.

My first attempt was to create task-centric virtual desktops, so that
there were tags for windows that had to do with work, tags that had to
do with fiction writing, tags for browsing the web, tags for chatting,
tags for interacting with the system and so forth. This was an epic
failure, as the joys of a multi-tasking operating system are that they
allow you to have a number of different processes running in parallel,
and if you have you window manager setup to constrain your to one task
per screen then you've basically shackled your computer into only being
able to do two things at once. Which is both distracting (as you end up
hiding needed windows, or disregarding the established tagging systems.
I also found that in an attempt to use both windows, I ended up using
the middle half of each monitor more than I used the outer half.

My second attempt was to have a primary/secondary monitor setup, with my
keyboard in front of the left screen which had most "action" related
tasks (writing, email, etc.) and the right screen was for reference
materials (web, chat, pdfs, etc,) and I've tried both organizing tags
based on task/sphere, and also based on window type (so that "work"
happened in more ad-hoc spaces). Neither works particularly well.

My current attempt is still largely based on the main/reference mode of
operation, except I've made things a bunch less rigid, and mixed things
up a bit to see if this makes things a bit easier to work with. I have
background processes on the left monitors: email, web, file management
on the left; org-mode files, and chat on the right. And then, I have
writing spaces and adhoc workspaces on the left, with work and some
project-specific workspaces on the right.

I'm not sure that this is the best thing. There's a `dynamic
workspace/window tagging
library <http://awesome.naquadah.org/wiki/index.php?title=Shifty>`__,
but I haven't really tried it out, and I want to test things out on the
laptop (one screen) first.

There's got to be a better way of doing this. On one level this is a
problem of riches, (how do I use all this space I have), but on another
it's a much more simple problem that addresses focus and the way that we
present/organize information on our screens Thoughts?

Onward and Upward?

.. [1] It turns out that monitors these days cost a quarter of what they
   cost 5 years ago. In point of fact I was able to get both monitors
   *and* a new computer for what a single LCD cost the last time I had a
   desktop computer. Imagine that.
