==============
Dumb Terminals
==============

.. post:: 2008-09-12
   :author: tychoish

I make a point of staying on top of trends in technology. It's sort of
my "thing" and it's more fun than say, the hair colors and marital
statuses of the rich and famous.

So like most geeks, I've been hearing more and more about "cloud
computing," which is supposedly an evolution of Web 2.0 technologies
(Web 2.1? 2.5?) and this whole "internet thing," where software and data
is something that runs on a server somewhere else, and your computer
(via your `browser <http://tychoish.com/posts/ssb-ftw/>`__) is a
window on the "cloud." Let me back up:

Lets start of with the model traditional personal computing. People have
computers, they run software, and they store data. If they have network
connection, the network is primarily a tool for pulling new data to be
stored and processed using the software and hardware that's sitting on
the users desk.

Where as on the desktop you might use a program like Word or Open
Office, "in the cloud" a program like "Google Documents," is probably
the app of choice. And web/cloud apps have been replacing desktop email
clients for *years*.

And this is important and noteworthy because it's a fundamental change
in the way that we use computers, and largely we are all accustomed to
this mode of operation. The interesting thing, is that the underlying
technologies that support cloud computer:
`mySQL <http://www.mysql.com/>`__, `PHP <http://www.php.net/>`__,
`python <http://www.python.org/>`__,
`ruby <http://www.ruby-lang.org/>`__-on-`rails <http://www.rubyonrails.org>`__,
and even AJAX are really nothing particularly new. I suspect that the
largest contributing factor to the emergence of cloud computing *is the
fact that network connectivity in the last year or two has improved
dramatically.*

Having a connection to the internet isn't something that you do for a
few moments or even hours a day anymore, but is practically a requisite
part of computer usage: the "internet" is always on. And networks are
pretty darn fast for most things.

The geeky and historically astute among you, given the title, can
probably see where this is going...

The personal computing modality (run applications and store data
locally) came about when computing power and storage finally got to be
small enough (it could fit on your *desk*!) and powerful enough (whole
*kilo*\ bytes!) that it became reasonable for non-specialists to run and
operate them.

Before this, computers were pretty large, too powerful by the standards
of the day for one person to run themselves, very expensive and very
finicky to run, so they ran in secure/controlled locations operated by
specialists, and users had "dumb terminals," which included some sort of
connectivity interface (RJ-11 or coax likely), a monitor a keyboard, and
a chip board that was just enough to tie it all together and send the
single back to the real computer where all the processors and data
lived. [1]_

And then computers got smaller and faster than the network connections
could keep up with. Hence desktop computing. I'm just saying that things
cycle through a bit, and everything that's old is new again.

Thinking about cloud computing as an old modality rather than as a new
modality makes it a much more exciting problem, because a lot of the
nitty gritty problems/interface questions were solved in the 70s. For
instance, X11, the windowing system that most
`\*NIX <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix-like>`__ systems use, is
*designed* to run this way and in fact sort of acts as if instances
where windows appear on a screen attached to the computers running the
applications is an interesting coincidence. Which is pretty logical and
makes a lot of very cool things possible, but is admittedly kind of
backward in the contemporary perspective.

Anyway, cool stuff. Have a good weekend, and if you have any thoughts on
this subject, I'd love to hear them.

.. [1] In fairness these connections were, I believe almost always over
   intranets, rather than over some sort of public internet, though as I
   think about it, there were probably some leftovers of this in the
   BBS-days, with regards to terminals and what not.
