============
Editing Hell
============

.. post:: 2008-02-03
   :author: tychoish

I didn't write yesterday. I didn't even write a blog post (which you
already know, but I was just underscoring.) But I did edit, and that was
a victory. What follows is a reflection on what I've been up to for the
past few days, because. I haven't done this in a few days and I feel out
of touch.

I've decided that I need to rip back, damn near the whole sleeve of `the
morocco sweater <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/casbah/>`__. This is
because I have nearly enough length for the sleeve and I have 50 rows of
the pattern left **and** the sleeve is still 7-8 inches wide (so 14-16
inches around.) For those playing along at home, I like my armholes to
be between 9 and 10 inches long (so 18-20 inches around.) That's not
enough decreasing, and it's not something I can just rip back a little
to correct. To be fair, this is a jacket so the armholes have to be *a
little* longer, which is why I didn't catch the problem sooner.

I can't bring myself to rip it out quite yet, so I've moved on to
knitting the turkish tile, which I'm really enjoying. I had a lot of
"knitting back and forth in color-work short rows" to shape the top of
the sleeves and the shoulders.

While I think the "tile," is a good sweater and I really liked the
pattern, and it'll fill a niche in my wardrobe, there are a couple of
things that bug be a little bit about the pattern: I was hoping for
something that looked a little bit darker, and I'm just not sure that
I'm absolutly love this sweater the way I like some sweaters.

I haven't had a sweater like that in a while, but these things happen,
and it's true that these sweaters that I'm working on will turn out. I
just the the feeling that I've gone an entire year without knitting a
sweater that I really really like.

*I think I'm having an existential crisis and my knitting isn't immune.*

I didn't get any writing done yesterday, but I was able to help a friend
out with his computer (good!) and I got some editing done. I've both
started a pile of hard copy edits on the novella that I'm progressing
through steadily, and I have two sections/pages of the hypertext that
I'm pleased with enough to sort of let go of for now. I think I'll
probably post them here in the next few days, just because some
publication is a good thing, and I need to start getting my fiction "out
there" even if it is just on the 'blog.

The suck-y thing about editing like this is that its really tiring work,
and you don't have very much to show for it. Like "I've just spent an
hour annotating three pages and now, *once I go through it again at the
computer, which will take another significant portion of time*," then
they *maybe* won't suck as much. Because the editing process must be a
sort of private affair, it's hard to recognize this kind of work as part
of "being productive."

Other than that there isn't much. I think I need to zap my sleep
schedule again tonight: my body has gotten too comfortable with the
11:30-7:45 routine, and that's not where I'd like it. Though in the grad
scheme of things that's better than the 12:30-9:00 that I had been stuck
in for weeks before. If I'm not ready to get in bed at 10 and read (or
write longhand) for a bit before I go to bed, I'm going to try sleeping
3-6, in an effort to shock myself into something more reasonable. The
knitting time will be nice, and I think if I went for a walk or
something midday it might help reinforce things.

Maybe I'm thinking about these things too much.

Time to feign productivity.

Onward and Upward!

