========
Emacsen
========

.. post:: 2008-11-26
   :author: tychoish

Ok, so you (and by you, I mean `jack <http://metajack.im>`__) will be
happy to hear, that I've mostly settled on being an emacs user. I mean,
I'm not killer good at it, but this evening as I moved back to my Mac
exclusively for a few days (I'm writing this during a quick jaunt out of
town and my mac is the laptop) I downloaded a GUI version of emacs,
because... well, I think the less that's said the better.

This is strange for me, because for a long time, I thought that moving
to linux would be all about an adaptation to vi(m)--for those of you
playing along at home, vim is the "competing" text editor to emacs.
Emacs was always that overly complicated editor that did too much, and
vim's modal [1]_ design is kinda brilliant, and I was taken.

But as I've `said
before <http://tychoish.com/posts/editor-crisis/>`__, vim is great,
but it's not perfect for what I'm doing. My MO in TextMate has been to
use it to do as many things as I can. Which is more inline with the way
that people tend to use emacs. So I switched (haven't started to use it
for writing emails, yet), and it's mostly pretty great, but it's hard to
get used to.

I was going to say "it's just a bit weird," or "things seem hard to
find," or "functionality isn't as standardized as it is in TextMate,"
but I'm not sure that this is really true. I mean, there are some clear
differences between emacs and TextMate, but TextMate is *very clearly*
influenced [2]_ by emacs, so it's not that alien. And the M-x command
line makes things *really* easy to find, so that's not an issue. So
maybe my only complaint is that the various modes for emacs aren't as
consistent as the languages/bundles for TextMate. This might be the
case, but it also might be the fact that I don't edit many different
kinds of text, so I'm not a great judge of this.

So while I'm on this subject, let me make a list of the *kinds* of text
files that I edit. Because it's my blog, and I can:

- Markdown Documents: I use markdown formating a lot (with longlines
  and flyspell minor modes in emacs). These documents tend to range
  from about 1,200 to 4,000 words, and I write them for work
  (technicalish documents) and also my fiction is all written in these
  kinds of files.

- Blog posts. Also in markdown these are shorter, but in TextMate at
  least these have email style headers that interface with the
  blog-posting client. In emacs, I've been using these headers (as I
  don't like the blogging mode very much.

- Screen Plays. There's a great mode in emacs for screenplays that
  doesn't have some of the nifty completions that the TextMate
  counterpart has, but I think overall the interface is better.

- Occasional PHP/css/html files. I do websites, this is a necessary
  thing, and this is the most "programer" thing that I do. Even really
  sucky text editors do this pretty well. I might also from time to
  time edit shell scripts and hopefully do some python stuff in the
  future, but again, not a big issue.

- Outlining/Journaling. I'm not a big "one giant text file" kind of
  guy, but doing some kind of structured document outside of basic
  markdown formated text is nice. I've been using a "journal" bundle
  for TextMate for this, and there are a few others.

- Editing LaTeX documents. I haven't done a lot of this recently, but
  one of my "things" is using LaTeX to do all of my "production"
  document editing. For most things I tend to write in markdown and
  then translate to LaTeX for production, but I have a couple of LaTeX
  documents and templates that I just do in LaTeX. I need to explore
  this more, but I've touched on it a bit, and I'm a fan so far.

Are there other emacs modes that I should be checking out that I'm not,
seemingly, aware of? Thanks in advance!

.. [1] So the basic idea in vi/vim is that the editor has two basic modes:
   the "normal" mode allows you to use all the keys to communicate with
   the editor itself, while the "insert" mode allows you to insert text,
   and the end result is that the interaction with the program is very
   ergonomic. It's also incredibly frustrating for writing prose but
   amazing for editing jobs of almost any length, because navigation is
   really simple.

.. [2] The key bindings are mostly the same, and follow very similar
   patterns. I'd say that the biggest difference (other than open
   source/closed source) is that TextMate doesn't lock you into (e)lisp
   and doesn't favor a particular scripting language. Which someone else
   (whose more of a programer) could debate more clearly. To be honest,
   (e)lisp syntax doesn't bug me nearly as much as ruby, and there's a
   lot of ruby-bias in the TextMate community.
