===========
empiricism 
===========

.. post:: 2008-03-21
   :author: tychoish

*Days on the Waitlist:* **10**

I said the other day to a friend that "I thought I had my voice back."
This realization, and the opportunity to articulate it was incredibly
powerful for me. While I haven't completely returned to normal, I'm
getting there, which is kind of nifty, *not going to lie.*

Yesterday I wrote the begining of a 2,000 word essay/concept paper for a
structured hypertext system that I'm trying to get
`Chris <http://www.cgkreality.com/>`__ to collaborate with me on. This
was the other result of `this
conversation <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/audience-and-community/>`__,
and even if nothing comes of this project, I'm pleased that I was able
to write something like this. It was the closest I've gotten to writing
a real academic-ish essay in months.

It's not perfect, it needs a good once over, and I realize that the
ending is lacking, but it's something. That felt really good.

I also, went through the rest of the first chapter of Knowing Mars, the
novella from last fall, and have some better ideas about how to procede
with this project. I think I've been stalled for a while, because I know
that I need to further develop the antagonist, and I've been attempting
to do this edit by hand with a pen and a print out, which is less than
desirable, I think.

In any case, I need to get a draft of this project done that I can be
happy with so that *something can be done with it.* This weighs heavily
on me, and on my list of current projects as I think about the near
future. I think having a written project that I can be happy with will
let me feel much more secure about whatever happens with the waitlist.

And I need to keep writing, of course. It's hard as hell to write when
you feel like crap and--at least for me--it helps like the world to do
so. Alas.

So I'm going to get going, but thanks for listening.

Onward and Upward!

