=======================
Ethics of Free Software
=======================

.. post:: 2009-01-27
   :author: tychoish

Last week as I was wrapping up a project, I found myself reading an
article by Gabriella Coleman [1]_ about ethical systems and free
software/open source development communities (`pdf
link <http://mako.cc/writing/coleman_hill-social_production.pdf>`__).
It's a great article that helped me connect a few desperate projects,
and I think it also provides a very useful foothold into talking about
the ideologies of free software without getting encumbered by free
software's internal ideological "drama." In turn:

Before I got absorbed into open source and free software stuff, I was
interested in issues around the construction of individual's identity in
reference to group-based cultural scripts about identity. For example
how "gay men" think of themselves in relation to gender/sexuality/race,
and how they made sense of the social constructed-ness of these
categories. But the underlying structural question applies to all sorts
of people and groups ("people who knit" and "communities of knitters;"
immigrants/refugees and "Americans"/national identities; etc). There
were a lot of reasons why that didn't work out (on top of some stuff
about my background): the biggest one is that there isn't a good
field [2]_ to do this kind of work. In retrospect, It's a good thing
that it didn't work out for these and many other reasons.

Nevertheless, even as I've been "reinventing" myself and my interests in
the last year I've discovered that my interests in open source
development and free software, have a strong parallel, as I'm interested
in collaboration and shared creation in the context of open source
projects. This time I have a bit more going for me, of course.

So how does this connect? Well, I read a bunch of literature the first
time around on "moral development," and it turns out (I would have never
guessed this before) that there's a lot of very cool recent work on how
social factors (like communities and group membership) contribute to the
development of moral systems, that isn't "Kohlberg-esque" (and thus
decontextualized in harmful ways). Before someone pushed me to read
these articles, I don't know that I would have sought out the connection
between "ethics" (moral systems) and group identities, but it's there.
Reading this article addressed ethics of free software communities
strengthen these connection for me, and I think is a great starting
point for thinking about free software projects as a entities onto
themselves. I have some more thinking to do here, of course, but there
are some cool possibilities.

So about ethics and software freedom, anyway.

The article explores the ways that the Debian Project is not only rooted
in a strong "software freedom" ethical tradition (the DFSG, the close
alliance with the FSF [3]_) but also--as the article explores--promotes
and develops this ethic in amongst its many developers. That while
Debian attracts a certain predisposition toward free software and open
source, participation in this project reinforces a shared set of ethical
perspectives. We talk about "copyleft" licenses in free software as
being "viral" because the mandate that derivative works be distributed
under their terms (and thus spread in "viral ways,) but really they're
also viral in the way that they shape the ethical systems of developers
who use them.

That's kind of awesome. It's also, I suppose not ground breaking (I
think you can see echos of this in some of rms' essays, for instance)
but it does let you (or me) talk about the ideologies of free software
without *participating* in the (different, but connected) ideological
debates of free software. Which is a good thing indeed.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1] I have a somewhat sorted history of linking to people and then musing
   on whatever it is they wrote on this blog, only to discover a comment
   the next day from the original authors. So as a somewhat preemptive
   measure: Hello, and I think I'll write a somewhat less public letter
   of introduction soon. Thanks for reading.

.. [2] My background has been in (developmental) psychology, and while this
   is a lovely field that I have a lot of fondness and respect for, the
   study of individual/cultural boundary pushes on an interdisciplinary
   space, or null void really.

.. [3] Debian Free Software Guidelines (the code by which software licenses
   are deemed "appropriate" for inclusion in the Debian project) and the
   Free Software Foundation (originators of the GNU GPL, and a great
   many other things) in turn.
