======
Ex-Mac
======

.. post:: 2008-12-12
   :author: tychoish

The Linux switch continues pretty well. There's not a lot new to report,
except that I've not really used my mac very much in a week, and while I
*could* easily set things back up and roll right along with it, there'd
be a lot of stuff to sync with when I get back to it, and I don't have
any really compelling reason to do that for day-to-day tasks. Lets go
through and see how things have shaken out:

RSS Reading
-----------

I've basically just given in and started using Google Reader. I don't
think this is the final resolution to this problem, but it works quite
well and I'm happy with it for the time being. I think
`newsbeuter <http://www.newsbeuter.org/>`__ works with bloglines, and
that might be the best solution but I haven't made the jump yet. After
years of syncing with the `newsgator
service <http://www.newsgator.com/>`__ and NetNewsWire on my mac,
downloading on my own seems much less ideal. But google isn't evil...
yet, and so I'm very glad for reader.

TextMate and Text Editing
-------------------------

This was one of my largest concerns when I thought about switching. I
was really attached to TextMate, and it was comfortable and very mac-y.
While I had some trouble when I was using vim the, TextMate to emacs
transition is pretty smooth, though I have a lot of emacs-ground to
cover, all of my basic text-editing tasks are taken care of.

What I learned in this process, is that my text-editing requirements,
which I thought were pretty intense, are actually reasonably simplistic.
I've not yet mastered really powerful find-and-replaces in emacs (I tend
to use vim for this, though I'm sure I'll be able to give this up at
some point), or multiple file find-and-replaces (my gut says that I
should be able to use ``sed`` but, I've never had much luck with
``sed.``

Learning this about my process has been helpful, and I think I'm able to
concentrate better in my Linux environment than I am in OS X any more.
Powerful lessons.

IM Clients
----------

Interestingly, the more I used Pidgin, the more I realized that the
inconsistencies in the way the buddy list was maintained, and that I
didn't like in Pidgin existed in Adium as well. I just hadn't noticed
them: this is a great testament to the UI design of Adium. In the end,
Pidgin works pretty well and I'm reasonably pleased with it. As near as
I can tell I don't have a lot of options because I *need* the kind of
multi-account/multi-protocol support that libpurple-based IM clients
have.

I've tried running `BitlBee <http://www.bitlbee.org/>`__ locally, but I
found the buddylist/roster hard to track in irssi (my IRC client of
choice), who knows. If I ever switch from Pidgin, something like
`mcabber <http://www.lilotux.net/~mikael/mcabber/>`__ (if I can convince
enough of my friends to reliably be accessible via XMPP), or BitlBee.
But for the moment, I'm reasonably happy about this.

Web Development
---------------

Right after I got my Linux machine, I started work on a new
web-development project for a friend, and I realized that all the things
I was used to using (FTP clients, etc) weren't setup on the linux
machine. And my web developent style tends to be pretty chaotic/frenzied
and "test driven" (ie: "hey, lets see what this does! (pause) crap! what
about this? (pause) crap! etc.") so I thought it would be a royal mess.

Turns out it wasn't. I started using gFTP which is nice. For my own
servers I use some ``SCP`` based shortcuts I've written up for myself
and I SSH into the server and edit things directly there, but for some
things on this project having something graphical was a very good thing.
It seemed to work. I'm not complaining.

Blog Posting
------------

So I haven't found a really good XML-RPC client for blog posting on
Linux to make up for the TextMate blogging bundle and
`MarsEdit <http://www.red-sweater.com/marsedit/>`__ options. While I'm
thinking about trying out some of the blog posting software for gnome
(to revive the "coda" sub-blog). I've switched to posting using the web
interface.

This is good, because I can automate blog posting much easier, and it
means my work schedule in the morning doesn't revolve around getting
things posted. And the truth is that the WordPress interface is pretty
good. So in someways maybe it's good that I'm doing things this way.

Music Syncing
-------------

Yeah, I'm still doing this on the mac, such as I sync my iPod mostly I
just listen to music on my ipod, and tend to sync about every other time
I go out of town. I'm thinking about switching to listening to Podcasts
on my phone, and if I do that it wouldn't be a huge issue to move the
music to the Linux box after the initial import. But I'm in no
particular rush, given how often I sync my iPod, so this might linger
for a while.

Does this mean that I'm an ex-mac user?

Onward and Upward!

