=========
fall back
=========

.. post:: 2008-03-10
   :author: tychoish

In addition to getting word of the rejection from *WesternState*, I also
got a form letter rejection from *TopChoiceSchool* this weekend. The
total result: "wow, lets not have a weekend like that for a while,
alright folks?"

I think that the rejection from *WesternState* hurt so much, in part
because I had an extensive interview with them and it seemed so certain.
As a result, where most rejections are easily interpreted as "not enough
room, and there are other people who are better suited," this one was
very much felt like, "sorry, you're not right for this *kind* of program
and we wish you well." I didn't loose a competition to other people, so
much as I failed to impress.

The issue is that--and this shouldn't be surprising to anyone--I'm not a
very quantitatively minded fellow. But I'm interested in issues that are
*best* addressed by a very quant-ish discipline. But I'm really not
opposed to quant work, and in fact sort of enjoy it. The issue in the
rejection was that I wasn't a good fit for a "traditional quantitative
program." Frankly I think I was probably too queer for them, though
that's difficult to suss out.

Though this has all left me pretty angry, the truth is that I was never
very wild about the prospect of *WesternState*, so while
rejection--particularly this one--sucks, it's probably not the worst
thing in the world. What it does mean, is that I'm more precariously
concentrating on my one remaining program, which is probably a pretty
good option for me (and it's very qualitative and post-structuralist
which makes me quite happy.)

I'm also percolating on other options, of course, nothing quite concrete
yet. I'm thinking about spending some time trying to do something like
tech-writing, or systems administration, or user interface
research/design in a city nearer to a group of friends (philly?). If I
apply again (in maybe 2 years?) I'll probably try for feminist studies,
and there's an anthropologist at NYU that would be really great to work
with. Who knows. Hopefully this will be moot in a few days.

I have a couple of quick news items, in case I don't get around to
posting again.

- I've started a new sweater. Well, just the first sleeve, for
  entertainment until the yarn necessary to finish the last sleeve of
  my sweater. But I've done all the pattern development and centering
  and what not, and I must say that I really like it.

- When ordered the extra skein for the in-progres sweater, I bought
  yarn for a new sweater, and it is my intention to knit this sweater
  as a sort of performance piece with you all. I'll post the chart,
  instructions on getting the yarn, and doing substitution, and then
  I'll write instructions and design process stuff as it happens, and
  we can all fallow along.

- My "s" key on the computer is on the fritz. It's not too bad, but
  minnorly annoying.

Anyway, Onward and Upward!
