===========================
Fantasy and Science Fiction
===========================

.. post:: 2007-11-04
   :author: tychoish

I'm not sure if the term "SF" for speculative fiction as an umbrella
term for genres related to science fiction and fantasy is still in vogue
(and I know that the usage of the term in recent years is distinct from
the way that Hienlin et al initially suggested, but I'm not completely
up on that), but I've been thinking about the distinction between
science fiction and fantasy of late. In part because I'd like to be able
to speak more intelligently about what I write (and hopefully write
better as a result,) and also as a keen observer of the community, I'd
like to do a little reflection. And hell, this is supposed to be my
notebook, so there!

On some level, all science fiction worth reading is fantasy of some
kind. Reading about science or technology's cutting edge would be
incredibly boring, after all. Having said that, I guess I'd carve the
sci-fi/fantasy world into a few groups: the sword and sorcery fantasy,
other fantasy stories built on some mythological convention (like
vampire and super hero stories, which offer variations on some sort of
common or shared tropes. In a lot of ways, any more I'd probably be more
inclined to put Star Trek in this category) and science fiction. I tend
to call just about everything science fiction: the hard stuff,
cyberpunk, space opera, alternate histories, time travel stuff, though I
think there's some overlap here with the shared myth category.

How does that sound to you all?

