==========
fitting in
==========

.. post:: 2008-03-31
   :author: tychoish

Contrary to your first impressions, this post is generally not about
computers. Ok, a little bit.

I went to the computer store this afternoon. I got a computer from a
friend who had upgraded and moved away and claimed that this old box was
too old and slow to be of much use.

Well it turns out that this computer is actually about as powerful as my
current machine, and I figured that I could get linux or some such
working on it with minimal fuss, and it would be good to have a machine
around that could manage torrents while I was away with the laptop, and
host more regular backups, and so forth. In short order I got
`Ubuntu <http://www.ubuntu.com/>`__, but quickly realized that I would
need a monitor [1]_, a wireless card, a bit more ram, and so forth.

So after a bit of hemming and hawing I finally went into the computer
store today. There's this local independent computer store in town that
has used gear and what not, which is great if you're in the market for
something specific and don't need the fuss of comp USA or some such.
We've been going there for years and years and it seemed like the ideal
place for this kind of task.

I got there and this very young looking (I wonder at what point we start
identifying the people who help us in stores as "young looking") guy
came up to help me. Short. Thin. Emo. Obviously knew what he was doing.
And so I let myself be the customer for once. "Yeah, I need this," and
he was able to do it, pretty much without a hitch.

I told him what I needed, he got the wireless card (last one) told me
that flat panel monitors where in high demand and didn't last long on
the shelf, but quoted me an acceptable price. I looked at the CRT
monitors, but didn't get one. He husseled about trying to look for the
right kind of ram, but didn't find any.

It was at this point that I realized that this fellow was me. Sort of. I
mean, I have a better fashion sense (gawd, the emo.) and taste in
operating systems (he was using vista!), but other than that, here I
was. It also struck me, that at this precise moment I was very *not
queer*. Geeks are already a bit off of norm, and in casual interaction,
it doesn't come up/make itself apparent. Which is all together an odd
feeling.

Anyway, so I brought the computer in, he put in the card and took out
the modem, which was convenient, and then I left. We made small talk
about operating systems, I was like, 10.4 it's good stuff. He said
something about the Air, I shrugged, and then left.

I didn't get the wireless to work off the bat, and I'm currently
reinstalling the OS (last time when I installed, I was able to disabuse
it of the notion that I had a turkish keyboard, which complicated the
login process.) With luck, I'll be able to get the wireless to work
after this is done. There seems to be confirmation of this wireless card
working with Ubuntu, but we shall see.

Anyway, I'm going to tinker more, and knit some this afternoon. I've not
been doing enough knitting, or writing for that matter.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1] We do have an extra monitor in the house but is of the 15" CRT
   variety, and about 12 years old. Some better option needs to be
   derived.
