==================
five fiction ideas
==================

.. post:: 2009-10-02
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: fiction, science-fiction, writing

From the file of "things I would like to be writing if I had more time."
Please, if you're inclined or would like to use one of these ideas for
the basis of a story, please feel free to.

1. A distributed space opera

I've been telling very tight space opera stories for a while now.
Stories set within the next 1000 or so years that revolve around our
sun, where the civilization shares much of our cultural background.
Stories set in the future chronicles of "Western Civilization" as it
were. I'd like to get away from that and tell stories that are bigger
than that, stories with less ubiquitous communication between worlds.

2. An Alien Story

As a kid who grew up with ubiquitous bipedal aliens in Star Trek, I've
been wary of alien stories, as I worry that the aliens will be too campy
or too human like. Or I'll fall into the exoticisism trap and have my
aliens be too wondrous, and that's not good either. Despite this
avoidance, I *love* alien stories, and I love stories that can take
advantage of this additional spectrum of difference and diversity, to
mention nothing of the potential communication issues.

3. A Planet-bound Space Opera

Back to space opera. If this is my *thing* then, I'm happy for it. One
of the things that I like about the forum are the ways in which it
forces us to expand the limits of possibility and difference, it makes
us thing *big*. The distributed idea above makes the world huge and vast
by disconnecting the story-world from ours. I think setting a story on a
planet or outpost, in a world where there's a interstellar
economy/culture, I think it would be interesting to explore the vastness
and world view from the perspective of people who don't actually travel
between the stars very much.

4. Cyberpunk and Internet Networking

I'd like to write some sort of story that addresses some of the problems
with managing "big data." Which is to say, we're collecting so much data
right now and there's so much raw information that it's difficult to
keep track and store it reasonably, much less find a way to make use of
it. I think this is a hugely interesting problem, but I think as we
begin to expand a little bit the there's going to be technological
limitations to the accessibility of data in some locales based on
distance and local capacity. Exploring how this plays out practically in
cyberspace is I think important. There will clearly be massive shared
data collections, and computers will be networked, but will there be
*one data network* in the way that there is now, or will there be many
data networks? And where are the breakpoints socially?

5. A Story about Death and Closure

In my psychology major days I was very interested in development
processes and moments around death and dying. Maybe I read too much
Irvin Yalom, but I think a science fiction story--perhaps a sort of
claustrophobic inmate story about the death of a
civilization/society/planet (i.e. a "Cultural Fugue" to borrow an idea
from Delany) handled in an optimistic sort of way, but not terribly
sentimentally, to be fair. Because I like that kind of thing.

Onward, and of course, Upward!

