===========================
Focus and Context Switching
===========================

.. post:: 2010-07-08
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: productivity

This post is inspired by `Cory Doctorow's Inventory about the technology
he uses for his
work <http://www.locusmag.com/Perspectives/2010/07/cory-doctorow-what-i-do/>`__
and ongoing personal angst and `gadget
lust </2010/07/gear-mongering/>`__.

For the past six months or so I collapsed my entire computing existence
into one, single, computer. It's a nifty Thinkpad x200, a small laptop
with just the right balance of usable screen space, sufficient computing
power, and great build quality. And when I say "everything," I mean it.
I hook it up to a monitor and keyboard at the office and do my day-job
(technical writing/sys admin stuff) on this system, I have a similar
"desktop" situation at home, and I write fiction, do all of my email,
write and blog posts, off of this system. I even have development web
servers running here.

In a number of ways it's great, and I wouldn't trade this for the world.
Everything just works the way I want it to, and I never have to worry
that I've left some important edits to a file on a system elsewhere.
Everything is always with me.

Now to be fair, I have additional computers. My old(der) desktop at home
keeps backups of files, plays music, and does a number of other tasks. I
have (and use) the server that this and other websites run on for some
tasks, and I have another instance at the office that manages some work
functions, but despite their varying physical distance from me at any
given point, my interactions with these computers is always as if
they're remote. When I use a computer, it's this one.

Now there isn't a *real* problem here, except that from a workspace and
mindspace perspective the context switching can be somewhat complicated
and frustrating. While I've got most of the kinks worked out of the
docking (monitors and keyboards) process figured out, it takes me a few
moments to settle into or out of "laptop-mode" or "workdesk-mode" or
"homedesk-mode." While not having to worry if my files are all up to
date, it's also somewhat distracting for all my different projects to be
open all the time. The article I'm working on for work is always open
and a few key presses away from the novel I'm working on or the latest
in-progress blog post.

Again, this isn't a really huge issue, but it means that when I get
somewhere and want to begin working I have to take a deep breath, and
spend a moment or two getting going again. These do fit into the
category of "first world problems," and I'm not sure if there's a really
easy solution. I've toyed with a number of resolutions to this angst:

-  Distribute my existing machines such that I have a machine that lives
at work and a machine that lives at home so that I can just sit down
at a desk and start working without shenanigans. Given the available
hardware, this might mean that I'd spend most of my time using
systems that I'm not particularly fond of.

-  I've toyed with having a "tycho writing laptop" that wouldn't have a
web browser installed, for more distraction free writing. I've got my
old laptop set up to do this, but I'm not likely to take it anywhere
(i.e. for the commute,) so it might make sense to get a little
netbook for the train for this function, but that seems like
overkill.

-  I might redistribute more of my workload to servers rather than doing
everything on the laptop. I'm thinking about having the terminal
sessions that I use for email *primarily* live in screen sessions
elsewhere.

-  I've thought about getting a second laptop, (like my main system at
the moment,) both for redundancy and to help reduce the cost of
switching between various contexts.

As I've been toying with this, I've been making a number of tweaks to my
work flow to help address the pain of context switching, most of which
are too trivial and too specific to outline here. Mostly I've been
tweaking some customizations, improving how I use virtual desktops.
While these tweaks have improved things greatly, better internal system
management doesn't solve the underlying issues: it takes time to
reconnect to networks, to close tabs in the web browser, to get to the
relevant files open in emacs, and navigate to the proper desktop. All
the while *other contexts* (other files, other virtual desktops,) lurk
nearby.

And figuring out how to solve this problem involves a certain amount of
"head game" for me: avoiding having "the old laptop" be the primary
computer for a given task, making sure that I don't need a network
connection for essential tasks. Assorted other weirdnesses.

If anyone recognizes features of this angst that in their own work
they've managed to resolve, I'd love to hear about your setup.

