==========
forgetting
==========

.. post:: 2007-08-31
   :author: tychoish

I didn't bring knitting for class today. I think this might prove to be
a problem for me, but it's only a couple of hours, and my battery should
hold out for that long, so it's probably not a huge issue.

In other news, I had an attempt to get a blogging set up through
`TextMate <http://macromates.com/>`__, but have had less than
satisfactory experiences with the options there. My issue is that I'm
quite spoiled by the wonderfulness that is Mars-Edit (yes, it is old
software, but it just works, which is nice), and anything that doesn't
quite measure up is somewhat painful. While I'm always a little peeved
when I have to click "edit in external editor" or âŒ˜-J, it's better than
nothing, I suspect.

Maybe if I could figure out how to make a TextMate command that would
send a file to MarsEdit, this would make the workflow a bit better for
me. Ideas folks?

I `posted something on the 43folders
board <http://board.43folders.com/showthread.php?t=1964>`__, about
reorganizing and keeping track of my massive (seemingly, massive at any
rate) PDF collection. With a little more thought on the subject, I'm
thinking that perhaps it would be a good idea to use something like
`BibDesk <http://bibdesk.sourceforge.net/>`__, but I'm far from decided
on this fact. The first time I looked at this problem, I hadn't made the
leap to `LaTeX <http://www.latex-project.org/>`__ and I didn't really
know what to make of it, but I think I'm probably in better shape these
days.

I'll be in class and then on the road for the rest of the day, so
updates will be spare, this weekend will probably be pretty spare as
well, but I might figure out a way to post pictures from a trip to `yarn
barn <http://www.yarnbarn-ks.com/>`__. Maybe.

Cheers!

