=========================
free and open terminology
=========================

.. post:: 2009-05-18
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: free-software, academia, writing

As, I'm sure many of you know, language and "what we call things" in the
free software/open source world is a huge thing. Some people will
probably get mad for my use of the slash in the previous sentence. This
post, is mostly for my own good, as an experiment (and for future
reference) to see where I stand on various word-choice questions in this
area. I'm going to organize the post as a series of (brief) reflections
a couple of key words.

Free Software
-------------

I think free software, addresses and represents the core of what this
whole mess is about. Free software--as an idea--addresses the
communities, the "hacking spirit," the ideological goals, the political
and philosophical elements of the community.

It's also horribly confusing in English, and no matter how often we say
"free as in speech" or "free as in freedom," it's not really going to
get better. I think, also, "libre" is a poor use of the English
language, and I cringe a lot when I read it. I've taken, when possible
to refer to "ideas about software freedom" and "the movement for
software freedom," which works as long as you don't need to refer to a
specific piece of software.

In those cases, I often cave and say "**open source** software" because
it open source is a more clear adjective. I also think that open source
describes "the thing" and the "process" more clearly, and that's an
advantage. I dislike that open source, means "not scary to big
businesses," and disregards the fact that this (free/open source)
software is better/more valuable than proprietary/closed software
because it is free and open source not simply because it happens to be
better in quality.

GNU/Linux
---------

I tend to say GNU/Linux, because--at least in my use cases--the kernel
isn't nearly as important to how I think about my operating system as
all the tools that surround them, and if the next big thing in the
Unix-like (open source) operating system was a
`Debian <http://www.debian.org>`__ or
`Arch <http://www.archlinux.org>`__-like system with GNU parts around
the FreeBSD kernel or the Solaris kernel, I'm *there*.

I switched from OS X to GNU/Linux mostly because I wanted: better
package management and (oddly enough) to be able to run an X11 desktop.
The truth was, I was basically running a GNU(ish) system around Darwin
(OS X's kernel), anyway.

