===================
free project xanadu
===================

.. post:: 2009-05-19
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, open-source

It's my hope that this post will combine the following ideas:

1. The concept of "General Information" As Posited Samuel Delany's 1984
novel *Stars in my Pocket Like Grains of Sand.*

2. The hypertext system, Project Xanadu, as described by Theodor Holm
Nelson in his book *Literary Machines* (and elsewhere) which I've
`discussed on this blog
recently <http://tychoish.com/rhizomelamenting-xanadu/>`__.

3. The contemporary idea of distributed network service, as described in
the `Franklin Street
Statement <http://autonomo.us/2008/07/franklin-street-statement/>`__,
and enacted by technologies like `git <http://www.git-scm.com>`__,
`xmpp <http://www.xmpp.org>`__, `laconi.ca <http://www.laconi.ca>`__
and `open microblogging <http://www.openmicroblogging.com/>`__, and
others.

--------------

We value the Internet--really the "web"--as it is to today, because it's
diverse, and flexible. Web pages can look like anything, can do
virtually anything from present the text of a book or newspaper to
fulfill most of the functionality of your desktop computing needs.
What's more all this is indexed and made accessible with google search.
That's pretty cool.

While the web's ad-hoc and disorganized structure has made many things
possible, there's no reason to assume that the future development of the
web will continue in the current direction.
`microformats <http://microformats.org/>`__, and the proliferation of
`rss <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSS>`__ in "Web 2.0," not to mention
human generated portals like `Mahalo <http://www.mahalo.com/>`__ (or
google knoll, and even various WikiMedia Foundation Projects), all seem
to point to a larger trend toward more structured, hand curated
information.

As an aside, I think it's interesting that hand-curation (more human
involvement) in information networks while structured data means less
human involvement those networks.

I should also clarify that by "more structured" I basically mean an end
to web-design as we know it now. Rather than allow designers and--well,
people like me--to have a say with regards to how pages are organized,
information would be collected in containers with specific structures
(headings, lists, tables, metadata, etc.) and the design or display
would happen on the client side in the form of specialized browsers,
Site specific browsers, but also domain specific browsers. (eg. use this
program to view blags and microblog pages, and this program for reading
pages from the news services, and this program to view x-new-class of
sites). In short, adding structure to content wouldn't limit the realm
of possibility, but it would separate content from this stream of
thought.

Structure is one part of the Xanadu-model of hypertext/content, and
perhaps the most lamented by those of us who are... professionally
frustrated by the lack of structure in the contemporary web, but I think
it's distribution and federation concepts are too often overlooked, and
are quickly becoming relevant to contemporary technology.

Federation, to subtitle, is the set of technologies technologies that
allow network services to function without always-on and real-time
network. Federation avoids two other technical problems with distributed
network services: first, it removes the need for centralized servers
that provide canonical versions of content. Secondly, in a distributed
environment federation removes the need for local nodes to contain
complete copies of the entire network. Xanadu had provisions for the
first aspect by not the second while the Internet (more or less) has
provisions for the second, but not the first, and free network
services--in some senses--attempt to bring the second form of federation
to the web and to the Internet.

Federation, for free network services, means finding ways of
communicating data between websites so that networks of information can
be built in the same way that networks of computers have already been
built.

--------------

In *Stars in my Pocket Like Grains of Sand* Delany's "Internet" is a
service called "General Information" or GI which exists in a neural link
for some of the characters. GI isn't always complete, or accessible in
it's most up to date format--and it's users know this--and accept it as
a price for living in an interstellar society, but it is accessible on
an interstellar level. GI, like free network services is built (either
implicitly or explicitly) with the notion that a node on the network
could go offline, continue to develop and be useful, and then go back
on-line later, and "sync" with it's peer nodes, thus creating some
measure of resilience in the network.

The contemporary network uses a resilient routing system to "get around"
nodes that drop offline, whereas a truly federated system would store
diffs across time and use this "temporal" information to maintain a
consistent network. This sort of consistency is going to be really
useful--not only because it would allow individuals and small groups to
provide their own networked computing services locally, but also because
providing data connectivity that is free, always-accessible, fault
tallerant, **and** high speed, is unlikely to appear universally...
ever, and certainly not for a long time.

--------------

I suppose the next step in this train of thought is to include some
discussion of my friend `joe's <http://www.josephspiros.com/>`__ project
called
"`haven <http://josephspiros.com/2009/02/05/prelude-to-haven>`__," which
would tie this to the discussions I've been having with regards to
databases. But that's a problem for another time.

