=================
Freedom in Source
=================

.. post:: 2008-11-14
   :author: tychoish

There are two schools of thought on why software developers should
release their projects as free/open source software. There's the thought
that open source equals software freedom *from* large companies who
might seek undo influence over your computing; then there's the opinion
that open source equals the freedom *to* tinker and use your software as
you see fit. [1]_

Which is a really interesting argument, I suppose, if you're living in
the 1980s (or before really.) In the earlier days of computing and open
source, having unencumbered access to source code meant something very
different. Most computer users 'back in the day' had a stronger
programing background, and computer systems (software and hardware) were
less reliable and required more tinkering. Open access to source code
had a functional meaning that was fundamentally different from what it
means today.

Today, most computer users and users of open source software don't have
a particularly strong background in program. My desktop, with the
exception of a few encumbered media codecs, and a closed source video
driver, is all open source. While I write `shell scripts that do cool
things <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/git-mail-3/>`__, and I can dabble in
PHP when needed, I've never tinkered with an C code, and never really
done anything that could be rightly considered a "program." And this
says nothing of all the people who use open source programs like
Firefox, Open Office, and Pidgin.

While I am a fierce proponent of open source (as traditionally defined)
in a strictly pragmatic sense, the fact that I can download the source
code of software is largely irrelevant to me on a day to day level. This
is to say that the "source" in "open source" is as much a symbolic
identifier as it is a meaningful technological feature.

So what does open source symbolize and signify in the contemporary
moment? This is a huge question that I think we requires a
non-significant amount of attention. Is open source really about larger
freedoms in our society? Is open source software about smaller/more
concrete freedoms in terms of flexible and customizable systems? Is open
source just the only viable way to practice the UNIX philosophy of small
modular tools, rather than large monolithic tools?

There are also other angles that we can run with this question. Is open
source the only way to gain a large enough user base (cite prevalence of
LAM(P/P/P/R/J) stack vs. Microsoft's server technologies?) Given
`current economic
instabilities <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/is-there-any-there-there/>`__,
might open source be a more viable way of generating wealth and
participating in an authentic economy?

I expect that I'll probably be tossing this question around, in various
ways for years to come, but you have to start somewhere.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1]
The conventional wisdom is that this divide is represented by the
division between the Free Software Foundation (in the freedom from
corner) and the BSD/Apache Software Foundation (in the freedom to
corner). This is of course simplifies the position of both of these
institutions in the community, as both BSD folks and FSF folks
advocate the "opposite" argument. For example, RMS' pro-hacker
arguments are very much "freedom to" and I think the inspiration for
BSD-style projects is often very much a "freedom from" kind of
proposition

