=====================
Friday Knitting Notes
=====================

.. post:: 2007-11-09
   :author: tychoish

Last night I finished another sleeve. Turns out I had to revise the
sleeve a little bit, and the sweater looks like crap at the moment, but
I trust that a little bit (or a lot of blocking) will do it good. This
means that in the great sleeve-off of 2007, I only have two more sleeves
to knit. This sweater is one that hasn't made it onto ravelry or the
blog, but it's coming. I swear. The yarn is Patons classic merino/wool,
and though I had a bit of a honeymoon with this yarn over the last 15
months or so, I think I've recovered. It's good yarn but it's a little
pill-ey, and I think for a basic worsted weight yarn I'd prefer
something with a little firmer twist.

I have a knitting lesson today. It's my hope that as this store gets
established, I can spend more time teaching and less time selling yarn.
Though it's great to work in the store, and I do like it, I don't
respond to fashions very well, and if left to my own devices--as I've
spoken earlier--knit with the same two kinds of yarn for years without
getting bored. Anyway, my lesson, I'm teaching this cool young woman how
to knit, and I'm going to do it my way (though I borrowed heavily from
Joyce Willams' method described in *Latvian Dreams* which I think is
becoming the store standard.) Basically, we're teaching casting on last
and purling almost immediately, so that people know how to get stocking
stitch before garter stitch. With hope this will mean that people will
have a framework to learn casting on when they get around to it, and
they'll be able to avoid aversions to purling as well. I'm looking
forward to it.

More to come!

