==================
From the Depths...
==================

.. post:: 2007-10-19
   :author: tychoish

... of the knitting bag.

Ok, so I don't have a knitting bag, but it's better than the random
places I stash projects that I'm neglecting. Even if it's technically
more accurate. We're doing some repair on the house and I was forced to
move the sweater I'm about to show you from the shelf I had been
stashing it on.

(We have really old carpeting in our office that we should have taken up
when we got the house, but we didn't and it's just been icky.) Long
story short, I pulled out this sweater.

I started knitting it in June so that I'd have a stranded project to
work on at Knitting Camp. And when at camp, I got the notion to--without
reading the pattern--use a yoke style construction to get set-in
sleeves. Which would have been fine, except that I'm very intent upon
knitting sleeves from the shoulder down for a number of reasons cheifly:

1. Progress is more apparent near the end rather than the beginning.

2. It's easier to get sleeves to be the right length and shape when
   you're working top down.

3. It's easier to have a nicer shoulder seem when knitting top down.

While the third point is obviated by the fact that you have to knit down
from a provisional cast on (and there is thus a half stitch discrepancy
in the pattern). I've compensated a bit for this, and it's working out.

The problem? My usual speed of decreasing developed for drop shouldered
sweaters, isn't quite right. So I've had to rip the sleeve out twice.
The third time is the charm.

The patterns for this sweater is from the book of `Anatolian Stocking
Designs <http://www.amazon.com/Ethnic-Socks-Stockings-Compendium-Technique/dp/0964639106>`__.
The central motif says something about "Egyptian Motif," I think, and
the other other is something that I tweaked a lot. The little round
motif is a modified Fair Isle perrie that I've used a couple of times.

Here's a closeup of the pattern. This is sort of draft two of this
pattern. The first, is in the bottom of the box of sweaters that I took
to camp with me. I did it in Prime Alpaca Sport Weight. It's a very nice
sweater, but it's not particularly wearable: too warm and the fabric is
kind of limp. Also, I'm used to knitting stranded work pretty tight to
keep the wind out, and so this sweater which the rest of the world
thinks is sport weight, I treated like jumper weight shetland. I'd like
to make another garment out of it at some point, but I'd need to be a
little less automatic about the gauge of that.

Here's a detail of the neck shaping, which uses this slit neck shape
that I'm quite fond of. This shape is often the difference between a
sweater that's too warm and a sweater that's just right. And while I'm
not particularly sensitive to wool (like I can wear sweaters over short
sleeve shirts, Having the wool on my neck is often too much.)

So there's that. I should go back to knitting or something.
