=========
Frugality
=========

.. post:: 2008-05-12
   :author: tychoish

As part of the "putting things in order," I'm doing some very rough
budgeting and prioritizing of expenses and projects in my world. I'm
looking for jobs and trying to figure out my needs and what not. Turns
out this is hard stuff.

This is in part difficult because I'm a pretty frugal person, I'm low
key, I get a lot of clothes second hand (there are some great local
second hand shops). And when you think about knitting as an
entertainment (which it is) the dollars to hours ratio is pretty good.
Same with spinning, only potentially more so. Same with books and
reading. And writing is, well free. And while I'm pretty up to date with
what's happening with technology, I have a 3+ year old computer, a 3
year old cell phone, a somewhat newer iPod (that I totally use
constantly). Embarrassingly I don't even have my own digital camera, and
don't seemed too inclined to get one, (I have a 20 year old film camera
that I don't use much though!) You get the picture.

As a sort of thought experiment, I made a list of "things I would buy if
money were no object." Not extravagances exactly, but all of the things
that I've said in the last couple of years "you know it'd be nice if I
had X." I'm not going to list these things because that would be absurd,
but it's interesting to see what I listed. A surpassing number of things
were I'd estimate 20 dollars or less, and at least 80% of the list were
things that were 100 dollars or less. And most of these things are
piddly like (a desk chair which is two inches taller--which I suspect
doesn't exist--and leans back a little, or a sippy-lid for a nalgene
bottle.) These are things, that I mostly need to just drag myself to the
store to get done--complicated only by the fact that I sort of hate
shopping.

I think this would make me a lousy lottery winner. It's really hard to
spend a few million dollars on things under 100 dollars. Reminds me of
Cory Doctorow's story `Other People's
Money <http://www.forbes.com/home/technology/2007/10/13/cory-doctorow-fiction-tech-future07-cx_cd_1015money.html>`__
(`podcast
here <http://escapepod.org/2007/11/22/ep133-other-peoples-money/>`__) a
little.

--------------

I'll write more about headphones in another post, but my writing
headphones have been ill for the past six months or more. Their
detatchable cord had been chewed by a certain `long
dog <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dachshund>`__ and while this didn't
ruin the cord, it did hasten it's demise. As I said the cord was
detachable, which lead me to believe that it was also replaceable.
Unfortunately, the manufacturer used a non-standard attachment size--not
the connector which was perfectly standard, but the end was a bit
smaller than the generic cords.

So I had this *very* nice set of headphones, and no way to reliably plug
them in, and I had given up on them, and had convinced myself to ask for
them as a birthday gift (Next Monday). As I started to do some research
looking for the right replacement pair I became confused and disgruntled
(reading the musing of audiophiles often does this to me). So in
frustration I was finally driven to take a blade to one of the ends of a
mini-stereo cord. and... Lo and behold, I was able to make it fit
without compromising function.

Ergo. Good as new headphones. In fact, better than new headphones, as
the cord I have now is thicker and not broken and therefore more
conductive, so the sound is noticeably better. I'm happy. On the
downside I don't have a clue what I want for my birthday now. Sigh.

--------------

I hope you're having a good day. My presence here will be sporadic over
the next several days, but I think I should be able to keep in touch.

