==============
fully jekylled
==============

.. post:: 2009-04-11
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: update

I write you from the future! I, as predicted, made the switch over
between the wordpress powered version of tychoish.com and the
`jekyll <http://www.github.com/tychoish/jekyll>`__ powered version of my
site. I'm quite pleased with this development. Basically it works by
taking a repository of posts with all the content from my site and then
compiles a website of static pages whenever I trigger an update. Though
it hasn't worked flawlessly, I'm pretty pleased with how this has worked
out, and as I clean things up and get to using the system a bit more
I'll write up a post regarding jekyll, but I want to get used to it some
more.

The biggest change is that I'm now calling the short form posts, "notes"
and the long form posts, "essays" (as usual) and I've changed the
landing page *a bit*. In all I think it's an improvement. I'm not done
tinkering around here: I hope this system will make it easier to develop
and "curation" lists of related content. If I learned nothing else from
this project, it's that I have *a lot* hanging around in the archives,
and the chronological list of content isn't a particularly good
presentation of this. So new ways of visualizing the content are in
store.

Also, if you're inclined, you can get a copy of the repository that
powers this site over on
`github <http://github.com/tychoish/tychoish.com/>`__. I'll set up local
hosting/cloning of the git repository, in a bit.

Anyway, Onward and Upward indeed!

