================
Galactic Empires
================

.. post:: 2007-10-11
   :author: tychoish

Even though I know it's out of vogue and comments on a cultural moment
that's past, a little bit of my heart still belongs to the "great
empires" breed of science fiction novels. Like the *Foundation* books,
like *Dune* (though I've not gotten to them quite yet, I'm sort of
hoarding them I guess.) Actually as I think about this, there are a
number of "great series" in science fiction that I haven't read year,
probably for this reason.

While not a universal--I think Dune breaks this rule--most of these
"great empire" series, aren't really about a character or group of
characters in the way that I think is more common these days. There are
characters, of course, and they're important, but they don't stick
around for a long time in the way that character driven fiction tends to
be. And there isn't really anything wrong with character driven fiction,
it just leads to a different kind of perspective, and type of story, and
to be fair, I think it's the prevailing trend.

It seems that this "galactic empire," style of story telling is really
rooted in a sort of "cold war" framework and with the end of the cold
war, the idea of "top down" superpowers isn't something that's
omnipresent. I suppose that some of the late-cyberpunk writing that
deals with corporations of increased size and unchallenged single
powers, is the present day product of this tradition, but it takes a
different tone, and a much more "bottom up" type approach.

I guess the question that's hanging in my mind is *can we get away with
writing this kind of "big picture" story in today's context?* I think
the cold war is an easier issue to resolve for contemporary writers than
is the character-centrism, but I'm open to ideas.

