===============
Gayer then Thou
===============

.. post:: 2003-08-28
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: queer, blogging

Editor's Note: The title isn't
`original <http://www.abstractnixon.com/2002/020406.html>`__, and it
doesn't really have to do with anything David wrote about in his
entry, it's just a good title, and appropriate for what I want to
talk about today.

I suppose that despite the voyeuristic nature of the weblog, I've always
tried to remove myself from actually showing too much. As defense I've
intellectualized damn near everything on this site, and by some wacky
coincidence it's actually worked, and I suppose I'll keep doing it, even
here. This is the entry that I don't really want to write, that I don't
really want to *have to write*. Enough with the vague ramblings.

From the onset, the gay community looks like this inclusive grouping of
targeted people, and in some senses it's really is, but in other's its
not. We're not inclusive of anything more than surface level cultural
and racial diversity, and the community is barely inclusive of all its
members, and that vision that you find at the onset very quickly begins
to splinter, and fall apart.

Why?

Good question. The term internalized homophobia is something that a lot
of people know, a lot of people even acknowledge it, but until very
recently I haven't **really** known what it means. And even then, I
haven't rid myself of this curse, and while I'm making progress, I'm not
there yet, and given the nature of the curse, I kind of doubt that I
will be.

I was talking with David at some point and he said that people will say
"I didn't know you were gay" or "You don't act gay" (whatever that's
supposed to mean) as if it's a compliment. Acceptance in our culture
apparently means "I can accept you for what ever makes you diverse, as
long as you don't act, look, sound, think, or smell diverse." That's not
true acceptance, and is only a short cry away from tolerance, and in
some ways is even worse.

Which brings us to this statement: Gayer than thou.

This implies that someone can be *more* or *less* gay, which depending
on what we mean, might be possible, but by quantifying someone's
gay-quotient, we establish hierarchy, and as hierarchy's are prone to
doing, they exclude people, the push people away. After all, people are
either gay, or they're not; they're either bisexual or they're not,
they're either lesbian or they're not. There isn't a "kinda" box. There
really shouldn't be boxes of any kind by, as Kinsey said "\_ Only the
human mind invents categories and tries to force facts into separated
pigion-holes. The living world is a continuum in each and every one of
its aspects.\_" That's as evident in my own speech as it is in the rest
of the world.

It wouldn't be so bad if the categories didn't hurt people, but they do.
They hurt the people that we try and force into categories they don't
belong in, but they also hurt us. By separating and 'ranking' people,
the community loses cohesion and a splintered community is ineffectual
and incapable of caring for the members of the community as a family
should. We're not just hurting our friends we're hurting ourselves.

