=========
Geek Camp
=========

.. post:: 2008-10-29
   :author: tychoish

I went to Drupal Camp Chicago last week for work, and while a lot of
what I did was work related--learning about Drupal and what the really
hard core folks are doing with it--the camp was an emersive experience,
and I couldn't help but make a few casual observations about geeks in
general. They're documented and explored below, and I'll have a more
technical/theoretical reflection of the experience tomorrow or the next
day.

This was my first "BarCamp"/unconference, and I really liked the way it
felt. There was a lot of knowledge being shared, there was a lot of
collaboration, and there was a lot of energy in the room. I go to Morris
Dance Ales, and Knitting Camp for the same reason, really. Intense
interest and activity around a shared sub-cultural identity/activity, is
a really powerful and invigorating thing. This is probably the same
reason that "(gay) men's gatherings," science fiction conventions, and
the "Michigan Womyn's Music Festival" are so appealing to so many
people. (I dare anyone to find something else on the internet that lists
all of these things in such close proximity).

One thing that the conference had that I think made it particularly
interesting is that there was always a "back channel" on an IRC network
for the whole conference. While there were downsides to this
(correlating peoples handles with their faces was difficult), this was
incredibly fascinating. It also made the sessions go off better: people
who were confused were able to ask questions of the room, it kept the
background noise down which was better for participants, and since there
was only one room for the whole conference it gave me a sense of what
was going on at the conference as a whole.

Someone pretty early on said something like "this is literally the
subtext of the room," and they were right. I'm a fan of
creating/organizing IRC/Jabber (XMPP) MUCs back channels for various
conversations. We use one at work during conference calls to pass
links/notes between our side (to keep down the number of voices/unmuted
lines), and we had one for the Open Microbloging Meeting which made that
really productive. It's a cool idea.

The other great thing is that I got to watch other *really geeky people*
use their computers. While I'm not a UI (user interface) designer, UI/UE
(experience) is something that I'm very interested in and have an
opinion or two about. One thing I noticed was that there were more Macs
in the room than you might expect. Part of this has to do with the fact
that the market share for non-enterprise laptops is something that Apple
has basically clobbered, I'm sure. Mac laptops are also more popular
among the young hacker crowd (which drupal developers are.) There were
some PCs, and more than a few people running ubuntu on laptops, which I
don't have the guts for right now, thats for sure.

In terms of actual usage, there actually wasn't as much of the "hardcore
hacker" stuff that you'd expect. I didn't see a lot of terminal usage
(except for the woman who had tsch
`visors <http://docs.blacktree.com/visor/>`__ and wrote a pretty complex
SQL query by hand on the projector. to answer a question after her
talk.) I saw a lot of people who used the gmail web app. Virtually all
of the non-mac people used `Zend Studio <http://www.zend.com/>`__ or
`Eclipse <http://www.eclipse.org/>`__, though I know I wasn't the only
`TextMate <http://www.macromates.com/>`__ user in the room. The most
surprising thing, was the shear number of people who I saw using gmail
and Firefox. Gmail is ok I guess, but it isn't brilliant and it isn't
mutt, and surely I'm not the only one with `a gripe about
firefox <http://tychoish.com/posts/mozilla-of-all-trades-master-of-_____/>`__.

Sorry for such an odd analysis of Drupal Camp Chicago 2008. I'm going to
be working on some more... Drupalish for work, but while I'm a huge
geek--no surprise there--I always seem to be more interested in watching
the room than in watching the speaker.

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!

