===============
gentoo/vms suck
===============

.. post:: 2008-09-24
   :author: tychoish

Ok, so I really want to like Gentoo Linux. Really, rather a lot. And I
even `wrote a post about how awesome VMs
were <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/vms-for-all/>`__. But here's the issue
of the hour.

I wanted to try gentoo, because I was kind of sick of having to fight
with ubuntu/debian to get at more contemporary packages. Having a
distribution that's really picky about these things when I'm not running
a server, and capiable of deciding if I want to install something is...
anoying. Espically when I'm likely to install it myself, the "stability
feature" seems downright painful.

And I'm in the process of testing things out so it seems fair to give
one of the "rolling" release cylce distributions a test drive. Ok, so
here's what happened.

There aren't--that I can find--VMs with pre-built Gentoo desktop
installations in abundence like there are for ubuntu. Which means I have
to install it from scratch. Except that that's really finkey and I've
thusfar screwed up in a couple instalations. Once by not reading the
instructions correctly and setting some weird keyboard layout that I
couldn't recover from, and this second time because the network wouldn't
connect in the virtual machine so there wasn't a display manager aside
from `xdm <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XDM>`__, and while I'm good with
the shell, I'm not *that* good with it.

I think I should attempt to get a good solid install into the VM before
I order hardware for real, but this last issue seems to be more an issue
of "tycho fighting with the vm engine" rather than "tycho fighting with
linux" so that's helpful, at least a little.

