======================
getting mad foo skilz 
======================

.. post:: 2008-01-14
   :author: tychoish

I often ask myself what separates the "real" geeks, from the rest of us?

Ok, maybe not often, but sometimes.

Apropos of my conversation with *ProspectiveAdvisor* this morning I've
been thinking about the mis/remembered history of the "geek" identity. I
mean at one point the geeks were the awkward and intense folks who were
really good with technology and games (ok, I don't understand that, but
we'll take it.) Being a geek wasn't a cool thing, and being a geek
wasn't "sexy." Now at least in some circles, with the rise of the
commercial Internet, I think it's fair to suggest that in some context
geek and hipster have sort of meshed in some perverse way. I mean
computers have gotten easier to use, and this means that the boundaries
of geek is wider.

My grandfather quit using computers when windows 3.1 came out because he
thought it would open the BBSes to too many people and ruin the joy
experience. While I wouldn't make that argument in those terms (or draw
that line in the sand) I think I'm commenting on a parallel phenomena.

But I'm getting too far afield.

So now since, in a way, we're all geeks, what separates normal geek from
uber-geek. What sorts of usage things to the real geeks do that you and
I don't do as much?

Near as I can tell, there are two major things:

1. Templates 2. Automate

Which boils down to basically: your computer is great at doing
repetitive tasks, so make it do them, rather than doing it yourself. I
think this became most clear to me as I've made the transition to using
LaTeX for any kind of document that needs to end up on paper. LaTeX
really powerful, and really complex, *but* figuring out like 90% of what
makes it go, is all in the header and footer, so all I have to do is get
templates ready for my documents, and then drop in the text that I'm
using. Simple.

In OS X, under file info (Command-I in finder) there's a little box that
says "Stationary Pad." If you check that, every time you open that file,
finder will *make a copy of the file and then open that one*. There are
also ways to use templates inside of TextMate, Quicksilver, and so
forth. Nifty. Ok, geek foo time saving skill number one. I have that.

Geek foo skill number two, is automate. If you find yourself doing the
same thing again and again, stop. Figure out a way to automate this.
Most programs have a macro function, which I think is utterly
misunderstood. I you have a series of find and replaces, you can just
open up a test document, do the find and replaces, and save the macro so
you can do it again and again. If you're a perl genius you could
probably write it out in your sleep, but then, where's the fun in that?

Ok. Nifty.

So the question is, what's number 3. There has to be another trick, that
I'm missing. Something you can do that doesn't require learning
`Lisp <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LISP>`__.

Sigh.

