=========================
Getting Other Things Done
=========================

.. post:: 2007-01-20
   :author: tychoish

As some of you might know, starting last semester (and continuing on
this semester) I've been rethinking my personal "system," the way I
organize all of the "data" (writ large) in my life. This includes things
like RSS reading, email, academic articles in PDF format, notetaking, my
to-do lists and other project planning related data,
appointments/schedule, and so forth. In this effort I've paid a lot of
attention to what Merlin Mann and the community at 43 Folders as well as
the LifeHack.org Blog. In part this is because Merlin is a Mac geek and
since I am too, this works pretty well, but generally I agree with
Merlin's aesthetic and approach to these kinds of things.

One of the things that is huge on 43f, and in much of the "geek"
productivity community has been GTD or getting things done, a
"methodology" developed by David Allen. While there are many aspects of
GTD that I find really interesting and fairly common sense, and I have
enjoyed the technological interpretations that Merlin and others have
helped develop, I'm putting forth something of a criticism of the
hegemony of this system, because I think other ways of thinking about
personal and group productivity are in order. Particularly as it relates
to some audiences (like academics) where the system is not particularly
suited.

Among the threads that I've followed more carefully at the 43Folders
forms, has been one on GTD implementation for University Students. One
common theme in this thread is the difficulty of using this kind of
system for university students. GTD was, as best I can tell, developed
for applied fields (ie. business and consulting), for people whose daily
routine incorporates a variety of different situations and
tasks/projects, but to be clear, people for whom most of their work
happens in an office situation of one sort or another. (If people have a
different interpretation then feel free to offer it).

GTD uses basic organization efficiency principals to encourage its
partakers to: complete short tasks firsts (ie. tasks that would take
anywhere from less than 2 minutes to 5 minutes), to split large
projects/taks into smaller actions that take anywhere from about 5
minutes to about 20 minutes. Once tasks are broken up and organized each
"action" is then reogranized so that "to-do" lists are generated for
different contexts. Contexts in tern cover all of the material and
situational requirements for a given task. A fairly typical context list
might include contexts like "errands" and "phone" and "internet" and
"home-office" and "work," so that you can always take advantage of your
situation and know immediately what needs to be done.

In fairness Merlin has from time to time remarked that there are only so
many contexts when 80% of your tasks require you to be in front of your
computer with your hands on your keyboard, and I think this is a problem
that's particularly true for academics, but ignoring this for a moment,
I would also emphasize that I think there's a point (like GTD for
computer people) where the system can only be stretched so far before it
starts to break down. When organizational systems of any kind break
down, the results are never pretty: we either become engaged in an
endless cycle where we're thinking about maintaining the system on the
same level as we're thinking about what's in the
system--over-thinking--or, complete breakdown which creates massive
disorganization as information begins to fall through the system.
Neither of these outcomes are, to my mind, acceptable.

Given that, and the fact that I think this entry has gone on too long
already, and I'm not yet out of things to say, I think I'm going to turn
this into a little mini-series in the academia section of TealArt. It'll
show up, as usual, on the home page as well. The series will include
topics that I find particularly relevant to students and other people
working in the academy; although I suspect that writers and creative
folk will probably find this useful as well.

Keep in touch, and feel free to comment here or by email to
tycho.at.tealart.dot.com.

Cheers, tycho

