==========================
glitch and web experiments
==========================

.. post:: 2009-05-15
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: internet, cyborg

So, my laptop (where I seem to be doing most of my writing these days)
seems to have developed a wee-glitch. It seems, that (somewhat randomly)
the system just freezes irrevocably whilst, get this, scrolling on
twitter.com. No really. I'll be minding my own business, and suddenly
firefox freezes, I can't interact with the window manager, I can't kill
the window server and start over, I can't switch to another virtual
terminal to fix things, nada. Hold down the power button and restart.
Interestingly throughout all of this the mouse still works, as if to
taunt me.

I've not been able to produce the freezing in any other application, and
I'm concerned that it might be hardware related (disk access has been
sort of weird lately, it's an older computer,) it could also be related
to some of the dependencies in Awesome 3.3. I'm waiting for things to
sort of even out on a number of fronts before I assign blame. (And
switch distributions of GNU/Linux.)

My response, of late, has been to just avoid the web entirely. This
isn't a huge problem, as I try and avoid the web as much as possible. I
mean, I lead a very networked/digitally connected life, but it turns out
that most of it isn't web-based on a day-to-day working sort of way.

The experiment, then is to see just how far in my avoidance of the web.
The "information fast" isn't a startlingly new idea, and I'm sort of
interested in seeing how this affects my computer usage on the whole.
Information fasts work, by forcing/allowing you to take a cold turkey
break from the information that you consume and then re-evaluating your
information consumption habits and seeing what's worth sticking with and
what's not. So basically I'm using this as an exercise to see: What
changes, if I say "ok now web-browser," what tools and workflows do I
develop, and is this a better way to work?

Hints and suggestions would be helpful. There are some practices that I
need to get set up with, and using more effectively. Twitter and
identi.ca via IM (check). Offline, multi-computer RSS reading. Offline
access/browsing to common resources (eg
`WikipediaFS <http://wikipediafs.sourceforge.net/>`__ and other fuse
resources; `YaOddMuseMode <http://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/Yaoddmuse>`__
for the `EmacsWiki <http://www.emacswiki.org>`__, some way of reading
`c2 wiki <http://www.c2.com/wiki/>`__ and so forth.)

We'll see where that leads me. Do people have suggestions for tools in
this (and other directions)? Has anyone done this before? Would anyone
else be interested in doing the fast with me?

I look forward to hearing from you!

**Update:** I had a non-twitter related crash. I was browsing, loading a
new page and scrolling on the existing page. Bam! I have, in response:
upgraded the think-pad touch-point (or whatever) drivers to their jaunty
versions as the sources were disabled during the upgrade.

I've also, in this vein, installed and have a fairly effective copy of
w3m, an emacs-accessible browser, running. While I don't think this is
*the way forward* forcing myself to use an editor-based browser, might
allow me to focus more effectively and rely on the Web more for
information than for entertainment. *As it should be!*

