=========
Gone Home
=========

.. post:: 2007-05-16
   :author: tychoish

I've gotten so caught up in the "I'm home again" mindset that I forgot
that I didn't have a blog post schedule for today. But never fear, in
the TealArt of the future (and present)
`tycho <http://tychoish.com/tycho/>`__ the ever present blogger is here
to save the day with some thoughts about moving back home, his battles
with sudo, and his projects for today and beyond.

I spent yesterday, my first full day back in *hometown* getting
situated. Because I haven't been here for more than a couple of weeks in
3 years, "my room" is mostly devoid of furniture, so I have taken over
my mother's desk in retaliation [1]_. In addition to accomplishing a
number of important tasks related to finding summer employment, I was
able to get a couple of computer related tasks completed.

I've had a long running feud with the `sudo
command <http://www.linuxhomenetworking.com/wiki/index.php/Quick_HOWTO_:_Ch09_:_Linux_Users_and_Sudo>`__,
which has made it difficult for me to do a lot of things with the
command line. Luckily my issue was relatively minor, and now I have
rubygems and maruku installed on Zoe [2]_, and I really couldn't be
happier. `Rubygems <http://www.rubygems.org/>`__ is a package manager
that is required for a number of handy ruby scripts, and
`maruku <http://maruku.rubyforge.org/>`__, is a command-line translator
for `PHP Markdown
Extra <http://www.michelf.com/projects/php-markdown/>`__\  [3]_.
Conveniently it also translates into LaTeX and XHTML, and looks really
great doing so. I need to work up a good LaTeX template for day to day
usage for shorter documents that that I can push a lot of the kinds of
things that I need to output, but that's for another day, right now I'm
just happy.

In other news, there isn't a lot to report. I spent a long time driving
and unpacking and what with the pomp and circumstance of graduation
rituals, didn't have a great deal of free time to write blog entries. My
projects for today: write more, revise resume, write a future professor,
and do some more unpacking. Other on-going blog related projects: work
on growing and developing the reader/particpant base for TealArt. I
think part of this has to do with my writing style, but part of it has
to do with promotion, and I'm working on both of these aspects of the
site, and hopefully there'll be comments a plenty in the near future.

best, tycho

.. [1] A long running joke, my first brake back after I left for college, I
   returned to find that the only furniture left in my room were objects
   that wouldn't fit out the door easily. This included my desk, which
   is ok, because I wasn't using it. The ironic aspect is that I
   realized while I was away at school, that despite having a laptop, a
   desk/table to work at is crucial for my ability to focus and get
   things done.

.. [2] My PowerBook G4 of wonder.

.. [3] PHP Markdown Extra is a subset of John Gruber's
   `Markdown <http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/>`__ which
   affords for footnotes, tables and some other much needed features. I
   use this script, more or less, (so I changed two lines, shoot me,) to
   parse my syntax on tealart.
