===========
Good Monday
===========

.. post:: 2007-06-18
   :author: tychoish

I think I took away my own thunder last friday when I posted news of the
`Station Keeping Twiter <http://www.twitter.com/hanm>`__ log. I'm
posting little updates from *Hanm Center* and other assorted Station
Keeping related notes, it's been fun and I'd like to welcome all who've
come to TealArt from twitter, and invite all of you to visit either the
Hanm or `my own <http://www.twitter.com/tychoish>`__ twitter account.

This week is pretty exciting for me right now. I'm going to be in town
for the whole week, with none of this running about. While I had a slow
output week last week, I think I've recovered a lot of the creative
juice and I'm starting to write (and plan to write) more. This is a good
thing. A very good thing. I had burned through the backlog pretty
severely, and while having that backlog is good for cushioning the give
and take of every day life, I feel better when I can write more: writing
is like any other kind of exercise, it takes stamina and practice, and
unless I have the chance to write, I get rusty and it gets hard to
write. So it's good that I'm doing better.

I have a great *`Station Keeping <http://tychoish.com/hanm>`__* for you
this week. We get to meet a couple more characters, and that should be
fun. I realized last week, rather late in the game that the
`SK <http://tychoish.com/hanm>`__ portal was broken. I've remedied the
situation, so hopefully that will make it easier for you all to stay
caught up with the series. As always, I'm interested in expanding the SK
team. Please contact me!

Later today, I'll have a post together about a sweater I recently
finished. With a picture! It'll be awesome.

In terms of other content? There'll be a Deleuze piece, of course.
Having summarized the best parts of the first ~150 pages of the book in
3 posts, we're on to territory that's new to me and that I haven't had
the opportunity to stew over for months. I think, ultimately this is a
good thing for these pieces. At the same time, I realized last week that
If I read a "chapter" a week, I'll be done with the second part by the
end of the summer. No promises, but I think I'll take a break from that
with something else.

There'll be other posts, of course. I'm trying to figure out a way to
talk about the things I'm reading in a way that isn't completely inane,
but we'll have to wait and see.

I'll see you all around.

Cheers, tycho

