================================
Graduate School and Career Plans
================================

.. post:: 2005-11-28
   :author: tychoish

So I've once again been thinking about graduate schools, and the
eventual implications of those choices and some choices I've made at
this point.

Saturday night, I said the following "If I had to do it all over again,
I'd probably be a Cultural Anthropology major," which only vaguely
resembles truth on second investigation. As far a social science goes, I
like cultural anthropology a lot, but I don't really want to do that
major, so I'm glad I'm doing what I'm doing, but that statement has
pushed me to look at yet another breed of graduate programs.

I started this grad school search process by looking at neat clinical
programs where where was some sort of women's studies possibility. There
are problems with clinical psych programs, they don't tend to be
flexible, and they tend to be really hard to get into, and I want to
have other options.

My next step on this journey, was to look at personality psych programs.
Now there aren't many here, and they're hard to get into, (but I think a
bit easier). They seem to address psychology using units of study that I
think are appropriate, and at least theoretically I'd still be able to
practice clinician if I wanted to (because the internship and licensing
process is fairly distinct from the research portion of the Ph.D., so
that's cool. Also tied up in this is an interest in community, life
history, and narrative psychology (psychologies?).

This has also lead me in the direction of interdisciplinary social
science Ph.D. programs, mostly psychological anthropology, cultural
psychology. I have 3-4 spaces for courses over the 2006-07 school year,
which I think I'll use to soup up my anthropology background, in this
direction.

Where this takes me, will be a site of further deliberation in the near
future, so expect that. At this point I'd like to present a list of
programs that I've been thinking of. No real order, but a vague one.

.. raw:: html

<ul>
<li>

Joint Ph.D. in Personality Psychology and Women's Studies at the
University of Michigan--Ann Arbor

.. raw:: html

</li>
<li>

The Ph.D. program from the Committee on Comparative Human Development at
the University of Chicago

.. raw:: html

</li>
<li>

The Clinical Psychology Ph.D. program at Clark University in Worchester,
MA.

.. raw:: html

</li>
<li>

The Personality/Cultural Ph.D. program at the University of Toronto

.. raw:: html

</li>
</ul>

I'm sure this list will grow and change in the near futre. There are
also programs like the Clinical program at Temple University, and maybe
even Clinical Psychology or even Sociology/Gender Studies at SUNY
Stoney-brook.

Stay Tuned! Cheers, sam

