==============================
Graduation and Science Fiction
==============================

.. post:: 2007-05-09
   :author: tychoish

I learned yesterday something about my grades, which made me rather
happy, and I hope this bodes well for my future. I am of course,
graduating in several days and this is still a somewhat jarring
experience. I have yet to pack in earnest, though I think it won't be
much of an issue. I also have to take back a mess of library books,
which is in itself somewhat frustrating, but soon, very soon I will be
done.

While I will of course miss the academic climate, it's not as if I've
never been faced with a few months away from classes and organized
learning at the beginning of the summer. I'm going to be going to school
again in the fall. What I worry about most, now is ironically the more
trivial aspects of institution switching, and I think this is much like
I felt 3 years ago when I went to college from high school. This time
I'm worried about things like picking classes for next semester,
switching email addresses, and library access over the summer. I have
backup email addresses and I should be getting another official address
fairly soon, and my father has access to an academic library, so I
should be set for the summer, but it's still a bit strange. Ah, the
little things.

I wrote a bit about this the other day, but among my other projects for
this summer is reading more for fun. I've actually been able to work a
little bit of this in this semester, and it's a great deal of fun. I've
read Melissa Scott's *`Trouble and Her
Friends <http://www.amazon.com/Trouble-Her-Friends-Melissa-Scott/dp/0812522133>`__*,
which was delightfully wonderful, and I'm working on Samuel R. Delany's
*`The Einstein
Intersection <http://www.amazon.com/Einstein-Intersection-Samuel-R-Delany/dp/0819563366>`__*
at the moment which is quite good, but is a good bit different from the
kind of stuff that I'm used to, I'm also not done, so I can't really
comment as fully as perhaps I would like too. I've also downloaded a
number of audio Science Fiction podcasts that I'm hoping to find a good
time to listen to this summer. Also on my list (other than more Delany
and Scott): `James Tiptree,
Jr. <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Tiptree,_Jr>`__).

For some reason I swore off SF a while ago: it was to kid like, it made
me seem too geeky at a time when that wasn't what I was going for, I
hated being pegged as a genre writer, and frankly I don't remember what
else. While this might be the case, I have to also say that I've gotten
back to a point where I'm ok with it. I'm more interested in the
imaginations of SF writers and the kinds of ideas and issues that they
tend to address in their work. It also feels like home. So this explains
*Station Keeping* and my recent and future reading plans. It's also
another part of the "what I want to do this summer, other than knit
compulsively."

That's about all I have to report for you all today. I'd like to welcome
the soon to-be-former roommate as a new `TealArt
blogger <http://tychoish.com/hadarah>`__, there'll be a tech article
tomorrow, so I'll see you then!

Cheers, ty

