======================
Grudgingly Successful
======================

.. post:: 2008-05-21
   :author: tychoish

I `mentioned last week <http://tychoish.com/posts/frugality/>`__ that
I had been thinking about getting a new set of headphones for my
birthday, but I managed to fix the cord on my old headphones in a
spectacular sort of way, and came to the conclusion that I only have one
head, and didn't need two sets of headphones.

I have a similar sort of story from a few days ago...

The astute among you will notice that I've been at least a little
interested in getting my act together to do a podcast for a while. I've
done radio before, I've done some sound engineering, and it would be
cool to bring these experiences together with my
internet/blogging/reading fascination. I think it would let me interact
with a larger/different audience, and it just seems like fun. I've also
avoided doing a podcast for a long time because I've always felt that my
poor old computer was too overburdened and the cheapish USB mics that
been able to try out all sucked to my ear [1]_ I'd and a litany of other
excuses.

Anyway, I thought I'd solved my problems with the discovery of
`this <http://www.samsontech.com/products/productpage.cfm?prodID=1916>`__
a pretty nifty digital audio recorder, with good mics, which makes up
for what it lacks in ruggedness with versatility, and economy. I figured
that if I didn't really need to do anything other than upload the file
with my computer it could handle it.

I should interject that at the moment, I'm most interested in doing a
podcast in the school of `cory doctorow <http://www.craphound.com>`__,
which is "turn on a mic, and record for 20 to 40 minutes and then post
it on the internet." Anyway, I thought a portable recorder would be the
ideal situation for this sort of problem...

On a whim I hooked up the USB mic--that I had tried and failed to use
for years--to the computer and.... Hot damn. It worked. Really well.
This my friends, is why accepting for wool, books and tea, I don't
really get much new stuff. I always manage to make the old stuff work.
Even if I do like toys.

So nix the portable option, I'll--when I have time--and it'll be a few
weeks, I'll probably begin putting together a podcast... Nothing formal,
and at the moment it's a second string project, but it's on my mind,
maybe it could be on yours as well.

.. [1] In high school I was taught how to do sound engineering stuff at the
   local folk club, and I did it for a couple of years, and I haven't
   really gotten back into it. But I do think in the end, it's a bad
   idea to teach the people in front of the microphone what happens on
   the other side of the screen, because in most cases people who are
   talking or making music don't know enough to notice a lot of really
   minor effects of the technology. And learning about these things just
   leads to neurotic behavior. For instance, I often think that fiddles
   sound wrong in concerts/dances and it makes my skin crawl.
