============
Half Million
============

.. post:: 2009-02-03
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: update, journal, writing

So soon, probably during the end of this post or somewhere in tomorrow's
post, I'm going to pass the half-million word mark on
`tychoish.com <http://tychoish.com/>`__. This is a bit inflated because
I incorporated the posts from tealart a couple of years ago, and *some*
of that material includes quotes and links that I don't think should
count toward the site's word count odometer. But there you have it, and
in any case this is a milestone, that's worth commemorating.

There's a quote out there along the lines of "everyone has a million
words of crap in them before they get to the good stuff." If we count
the writing I do here, this means I'm getting close. If we count blog
posts *and* academic writing, I think I'm probably well into the "good
stuff." I suppose some of that is up to you.

I wrote a "journal"-type post about myself and what I was up to beyond
what I blog about here (and a few of my posts since then have veered in
that direction, alas). While these used to be the "easy posts" that I
would just sort of blather out a year ago, [1]_ I don't feel like I miss
them.

I'm doing well. I have a lot on my plate, and a lot of "loose ends"
floating around that are causing some stress, but I really can't
complain. Just for grins the things I'm working on right now:

-  Fiction Writing

-  Station Keeping, Season 2 (about 5 thousand more words to go).

-  The Novel, (half done, 4-5 more months till first draft; leaving 3
months for rewrites, and a podcast launch in August.)

-  Trailing Edge. (Hibernating. 3k more words, and then scores of
edits).

-  Open Source Research

I'm working on turning the research project that's been sort of
sputtering along into something more coherent on a number of different
levels. I'm not ready to announce this exactly but it involves:

-  Writing lots of emails. Lots of emails.

-  Turn a fairly linear paper into a wiki.

-  Collect a more complete bibliography file.

-  Website things

-  Get Critical Futures back on track.

-  Tychoish.com Redesign project. Not to mention writing for the site
like I do.

-  Something for the open source project described above.

-  Life things

-  I probably have half a dozen small/midsized trips this year. Knitting
things, dancing things, work things, science fiction things. That's a
lot of stress there.

-  I'm going to be moving this summer.

-  For someone who views himself as being a shut-in mostly, I do a lot
of stuff "out:" dancing 3 times a week, singing from time to time,
and so forth.

-  Knitting things

-  The grandmother shawl, plus two other lace shawls in progress.

-  My Starmore cable sweater. I'm 20% done with it. That's not very
much.

-  The color-work sweater that just needs another sleeve.

So that's what's on my plate. I really need to start knocking this stuff
out.

Will this blog be around in another half million words? I figure that
that means that I'd have to keep up doing this for another three or
three and a half years, at my current rate. It could happen. It could
definitely happen.

I'll see you on the other side.

.. [1]
It was a dark time. I'm better now. Mostly.

