==========================================================================
Have a good week and have fun. Eat Spinach. Read Station Keeping Tomorrow.
==========================================================================

.. post:: 2007-06-04
   :author: tychoish

This week promises to be an enjoyable little span for all of us:
*Station Keeping* debuts tomorrow--mostly--with a project trailer. I've
been debating throughout this project whether or not to spend some time
up front setting the scene, or to jump right into the story. I seem to
have decided to go with the later. I think that setup can be a problem
when when you're telling a single story, or when the setup gets in the
way of telling a story. In this case, my intent is to provide a fun,
escapist, and grounded story to entertain (and hopefully say something
interesting about the world,) for all of our entertainment on a weekly
basis. This is in part following the TealArt mantra of "have fun," and
part of an experimentation with the form.

Now that I've sufficiently lowered your standards, lets move on to the
rest of the week. Wednesday will be a wild card, as it so often is, and
Thursday holds some interesting tech content from Chris, but I'll let
him tell you more about that. I wouldn't want to ruin the surprise.

Finally, on Friday there'll be another Deleuzian essay. Or rather, an
essay about Deleuze (and Guatteri) and *Anti-Oedipus*. I have to say
that these are extremely fun piece to write, and from a personal
perspective, having the opportunity to write science fiction and
reflections on Delueze--arguably, not dissimilar from science
fiction--for TealArt is really a great pleasure.

Every now and then, I lament the fact that we really don't have a
strongly entrenched readership, the way that many blogs that are 5-6
years old are. Having said that, really, I don't care about
entrenchment, just readers and commenters. Now in fairness there are a
lot of things that we didn't do right: we haven't posted regularly, our
entries have been unfocused, we're both shitty proofreaders of our own
work, and so forth. Still, I think, *really, come on now*. But then I
realize that I write about knitting--without pictures, or Giles Deleuze,
and suddenly it makes sense.

In any case, you're reading this, and I thank you for that. I hope you
enjoy this week, in addition to keeping track of things for TealArt, I'm
doing some more serious job hunting (ug!) and prepping for an upcoming
family reunion (yay!). And writing as usual.

cheers, tycho

