============
having words
============

.. post:: 2008-01-07
   :author: tychoish

**Editor's Note** In the course of my morning a few things have come
across my desk. I thought, given the nature of these communications that
it would be best to convey them to you directly.

--------------

Dear Climate Change Theorists,

It's come to my attention that it's almost warm enough for short sleeves
in January. While I appreciate a slight January thaw, it's my thought
that the 35-40 degrees would be sufficient. If there's extra heat,
consider another thaw in early March, but please 50s and higher is just
uncalled for.

I'd like my winter back.

Warmest Regards,

tycho

--------------

Dear Lace Knitting G-ds,

I have successfully finished my latest lace piece onto a circular needle
despite a brief interlude on 8" lace "pin" double points, thanks to your
support and attention.

I also was able knit about 10 rows, or 1,600 stitches last night, in one
session, which is great improvement from my earlier accomplishments of
under 500 stitches per session. Your graces have been most helpful in
this matter.

With Reverence to your Holiness,

t. garen

--------------

Dear Magi of Real Knitting,

Please do not fear, despite my recent experiences with lace
knitting--which are as you know, is only for the purposes of a group
knitting project--I am still dedicated to my current *real knitting*
projects.

I made progress last night on the
`Morocco <http://tychoish.com/posts/casbah/>`__, sweater sleeve that
I'm working on. I'd figure I'm about halfway done by length of the
sleeve, which means about 2/3s or so of the way done with the knitting.
This is because, dearest Magi, you have deemed it appropriate for
sleeves to get narrower near the cuff, and for this I remain your
humblest servant.

I look forward, with your kind permission, to continue and focus on
knitting more sweaters in the new year.

Respectfully,

tycho garen

--------------

Dear Knitting Class,

Please attract at least two more students. I want this thing to be
really full because it's going to be a blast. Also, we've arranged to
have both of us there every week, so we might as well. right?

Thanks,

ty

--------------

Dear *Breakout*,

Can we have a meeting to discuss your current status and draft up a plan
for your swift ascendency to novel status?

Best,

t.g.

--------------

Dear Novella,

Could you get a job so we could afford a freelance editor?

While you're at it, if you can discover a market that might want to buy
you?

Thanks.

Begrudgingly yours,

tycho

--------------

**Memo**

To: Desk From: tycho garen Subject: Hygiene

Hop to and clean yourself already.

--------------

Dear My Next Tea Kettle,

Why haven't we bought you yet?

I look forward to meeting you, tycho

