==========
Headphones
==========

.. post:: 2008-05-15
   :author: tychoish

I said that I'd write a post about headphones, given my latest headphone
recovery project. I have a few thoughts about this so here goes...

I think having a good set of reasonably isolating headphones is one of
the most important pieces of technology that an aspiring writer should
have. Not ear buds, I'm talking big, over the ear headphones that block
out most of the background noise. "Active Noise Canceling" isn't
required (though mine have it, I don't often turn it on). And since
you're likely to wear them a bunch, headphones that are comfortable have
reasonably good sound quality.

A good set of headphones is to my mind, crucial for most group living
situations, like dorms--particularly where there isn't shared music
interests. Even if music selection isn't an interest, having headphones
allows independent sleeping schedules and at least let me set up a more
distraction free writing and studying environment.

It's kind of like the perfect personal office. And putting the
headphones on can act as a personal marker to separate "work" and "play"
times (particularly relevant for me as a writer, as "dicking around on
wikipedia" and "writing," are not otherwise substantially contextually
discrete activities.) Though I write whilst listening to music (I
basically listen to music constantly) I do sometimes just use the
headphones as sort of dorky earplugs, I'll confess: just to get the
isolating and ritual effects.

It's possible to get the headphone effect with "real" isolation, and
it's possible to establish rituals using other objects/habits, but it's
harder. And you can't really argue with success.

