=========================
health care co-operatives
=========================

.. post:: 2009-08-28
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: economics, politics

This is I think part of a "phase two" of a series of articles I wrote a
few months ago about political economies, about corporate structures,
about "hacker centric" business models. In that vein of thought, I
suppose this post was inevitable.

My argument, in "phase one" was that big "corporations" were poorly
constituted to develop sustainable business models, to act in the public
interest, and to further the best interests of their employees and
customers. I made the argument that we needed structures in corporate
law (and in culture at large) to recognize "co-operative" (coops)
organizations that promoted organic self-organization, and more nimble
institutions that could participate in "authentic economic exchange."

I've been having a lot of conversations in the past few weeks that have
revolved around the current progress of the health-care "reform" process
in America, and I find that I keep coming to the same conclusion:

*The rising costs of health care in the United States, is largely due to
the overhead imposed by the insurance industry. Both in the increased
bureaucracy that service providers have to endure (so service providers
raise their fees to cover this cost,) and secondly in the form of the
insurance companies' own profit margin.*

As a result, I've become convinced that the problem with rising health
care costs is *the insurance companies themselves* and that any scheme
that sees legitimacy in attempting to address "the health care problem"
by taking the interests of the insurance companies as being integral to
the solution, rather than the root of the problem has already failed to
address the problem at hand.

What I've been saying, is we need to work backwards through this
problem. The prevailing logic seems to be to figure out how much
procedures cost, how much we as "clients" need to pay, and how much our
employer/the government can afford based on those projections, and then
how much we have to pony up to cover the gap. I think it makes much more
sense to figure out how much people (doctors, nurses, technicians,
clinical providers, etc.) need, how much supplies cost (lab work,
supplies, chemicals, physical plant things,) include some fringe
expenses (e.g. educational expenses, preventative outlay, technological
infrastructure), and then figure out how to pay for these costs:
co-pays, tax funding, health care trusts. That's at least a viable
solution.

With the base expenses taken care of, providers are more free to
organize in complementary groups, in co-operatives that provide various
kinds of general purpose and centralized services. Alliances can be
formed to distribute clerical and management responsibility, on smaller
scales. Makes sense.

Good luck in seeing that happen.

