=========================
More on the Writing Habit
=========================

.. post:: 2009-04-13
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing, science-fiction

I wrote a lot yesterday. I write a lot most days to be honest. Though
I'm not often successful at this, my usual plan of attack is to spend a
chunk of time in the morning writing on fiction projects, (after some
sort of warm up like a blog post or a few email) before I graduate onto
other projects. Often this doesn't work: I have other commitments in the
morning, I get sucked into emacs or website hacking, "the best laid
plans of mice and men," as it were.

Yesterday, something similar happened: I got up and had something to do
that took up morning, and I tried to do a little bit of writing, but I
fell into another project, where I wrote a *lot* of content, but none of
it was fiction. And then, at about 8pm, I said "crap, I need to write
fiction."

So I did. And I yanked out about 500 words (which is about my current
daily fiction writing goal,) and then I was done. And I felt good. One
of the reasons I'm so intent upon writing fiction despite my utter lack
of training, and dubious skill is that in aggregate writing fiction
makes me *very happy.* This example demonstrates--as if we needed more
examples--that while it's important to get in the habit of writing,
ritualizing the habit is probably counter productive.

When I finished doing school the last time, I thought, "yes! no more
homework," except that this writing experience (from a procedural point
of view) was a lot like homework ("ugg time I should do this").
Surprisingly this isn't such a bad thing: writing makes me happy, and
truth be told I'm pretty good at doing homework.

Anyway. Enjoy your day, and write something if you're inclined thusly.

