============================================
how do anxious people have time for anything
============================================

.. post:: 2008-04-08
   :author: tychoish

I didn't get to the part of the sweater where you can "unite" the
sleeves and the body last night--for this I blame dancing--but I'm
incredibly close. Tonight maybe. I've been planning out how to do the
neck/shoulders, and I think I'm going to have to pull something clever.
Damn.

I have to work today, so while I had grand plans to blog on a number of
varied subjects, that might not happen, though it depends on when I
start. I'm working on another tea review, and I've been writing up the
hand outs to a knitting class that I'm going to be teaching starting
this weekend. Eek.

Mostly though, I'm just anxious like, which gets in the way of getting
things done. On the upside, I have *one week left on the wait-list,*
give or take a day or two. This is exciting, and it'll be good to be
able to put this behind me.

I'm pretty good at **alternately** being excited about the possibility
of getting in, and all of the possibilities that being able to take some
more time off would afford (changing field, the opportunity to travel
and teach knitting classes) writing, making a more than honest living
doing computer stuff, and so forth.

I'm really not good at being able to hold all of those conflicting
excitements in at the same time, which is I suppose, not that
surprising, and why anxiety is considered something to be conquered and
not enjoyed.

Soon though.

Ok, I'm off for now, if I have time, I'll be back. Otherwise, don't do
anything I wouldn't.

Onward and Upward!

