===================
Huntsman's Hornpipe
===================

.. post:: 2008-03-16
   :author: tychoish

For a weekend that was, for the most part, pretty quiet, on Sunday
evening it doesn't seem like it was that relaxed. And, what's more
distressing, is that I didn't get a chance to write a blog post at all
this weekend. Eek.

I have a post about tech stuff coming up (I have an old computer that
I'm rescuing and I have some thinking/wondering/planning to do before I
can get that going.) But I won't bore you with the details and the
wandering. In the mean time I thought I'd run down through some things:

I'm still on the waitlist. That means...

*Days on the Waitlist:* **5**

...and it's a very scary place. In truth it could be as many as 30 more
days. TheBoy made his decision on the night of April 15th last year, so
it really might be that long before I hear anything more.

And that *sucks*. I could be a graduate student next year, that's a
pretty strong reality. I could also not, which is much more difficult to
cope with, and will require a much stronger reevaluation of my life
goals and plans. It's so scary in part because it means that I either
won't have a job/career in academe *or* that my path to getting a job
will require a significant repositioning. Fucking scary, guys. Fucking
scary.

In terms of the knitting, I'm in the middle of a hellish hem facing for
the current sweater. All other knitting is done, and I think I was able
to predict my progress pretty well. (Or more optimistically, I was able
to achieve my knitting goals.) I'm really looking forward to being done
with this sweater, and being able to focus on new projects with my
undivided knitting attention.

Further "*notes of random*\ ": We had a morris dance gig (referenced in
the title of this post) and the drawstring of my pants broke before the
gig. Thankfully, I was, as always, wearing a pair of gym shorts
underneath these pants and was able to pin the pants to the shorts and
all was well. Thought I like these pants (their linen!) and I want to
put a new drawstring in them. Also after the gig we stopped at a
international food market, and I was able to replenish the tea supply
with a half dozen varieties of good dark British teas. So at least my
caffeine habit is satiated.

Anyway, I think I better let things go at that. My "T" key is
threatening to come off, and this irritates me, and I should probably
get on to do other things for a while. I'll be in touch. You be too.

Onward and Upward!

