===============
Hypertextuality
===============

.. post:: 2012-10-08
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: science-fiction, writing, new-media

I recently took some of my writing time to create a makefile
([[code/novel-makefile]]) to manage work I hope to be doing on a new
novel project. I've started outlining and researching the story in
earnest after having spent the past few couple of years talking about
it, and I think writing will commence soon. In another post I'd like to
write up some thoughts on the tooling and technology of writing
non-technical/non-manual long-form.

*This post*, drawing from the spending some time buried deep in
production is about the state of (conceptually) longer form work in
digital mediums. Or, at least a brief commentary on same.

--------------

The tools that I use to write technical materials do all sorts of cool
things, like:

- provide instant cross referencing,
- generate great indexes, and
- automatically generate and link glossaries.

This is not particularly unusual, and in fact
`Sphinx <http://sphinx.pocoo.org/>`__ is somewhat under-featured
relative to other documentation generation systems like
`DocBook <http://www.docbook.org/>`__. [1]_

**And yet people publish ebooks that virtually identical to paper books.
Ebooks seem to say "*this electronic book is the best facsimile of a
paper book that we can imagine right now,*\ " while totally ignoring
anything more that a *hyper*\ text rightfully might be.**

I enjoy reading ebooks, just as I have enjoyed reading paperbooks, but
mostly because ebooks basically *are* paperbooks. I've written posts in
the past challenging myself,and fiction writers in general, to *actually
do hypertext* rather than recapitulating prior modalities in digital
form.

At various points I've thought that wikis might be a good model of how
to do hypertext, because the form is structurally novel. Any more, I
don't think that this is the case: wikis are unstructured and chaotic,
and I've come to believe that the secret to [[/hypertext]] is
[[/hypertext/structure]]. There are so many possibilities in hypertext,
and I think much experimentation in hypertext has attempted to address
the chaos of this experience. This does serve to highlight the extent to
which "the future is here," but it obscures the fact that structure
makes narratives understandable. Think about how much great, new,
innovative (and successful!) fiction in the past decade (or so) is not
structurally experimental or chaotic. (Answer: there's a lot of it.)

The not-so-secret of hypertext, is (I suspect,) [[/hypertext/tooling]]:
without really good tools the mechanics of producing a complex,
interactive textual experience [2]_ is difficult for a single writer, or
even a small group of writers. Most tools that manage the publication
and writing of text are not suited to helping the production of
large-multi-page and mutli-component texts. One potential glimmer of
hope is that tools for developing programs (IDEs, build systems,
compilers, templating systems, introspection tools, pattern matching,
etc.) are well developed and could modified for use in text production.

The second non-so-secret of hypertext is probably that hypertext is an
evolution of text production and consumption, not a revolution. Which
only seems reasonable. We have the technology now to produce really cool
text product. While tooling needs to get better, the literature needs to
do some catching up.

Lets start making things!

.. [1] It's not that Sphinx is "bad," but it's clearly designed for a
   specific kind of documentation project, and if you stray too far
   outside of those bounds, or need formats that aren't *quite*
   supported, then you end up without a lot of recourse. Having said
   that, the "normal," well supported and most projects--documentation
   or otherwise--will only very rarely hit upon an actual limitation of
   Sphinx itself.

.. [2] To be clear, I'm partial to the argument that today's computer games,
   particularly role-playing games, are the things that the futurists of
   the 1960s and 70s (e.g. Theodor Holm Nelson) called "hypertext."
