=============
I Am a Writer
=============

.. post:: 2009-11-23
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing

It's a weird thing, this "being a writer" stuff. I'm sure I've written
about this here to some extent. As a kid, I think--at least I tell
myself now--that I wanted to be a writer. There was something about
writing that mystified me and challenged me and had me totally
entranced. I had a hell of a time with writing in high school, enough
that I really shied away from formal training as a writer in college in
almost entirely. I took two English classes in college, sort of (they
were cross listed as something else), and I knew for sure that I wasn't
going to be a writer.

Right.

And then I got out of school, and something clicked. Actually, the
revival of my blogging efforts that stuck hit during my final semester
of college. And one thing lead to another and, here I am. I write this
blog, that's you know... *fairly prolific*. I have job where I *write
things* day in and day out. I write fiction a fair piece, though not as
much as I might like.

One might think--I certainly did--that getting a job *as a writer* would
put to bed all of my insecurities and doubts about being a writer. But
it doesn't. I'm not complaining, mind you, but it's still weird.

Fundamentally, **writers have a peculiar way of being in the world that
is always a bit unsettling and alienating**. Certainly we're all
different, and the experience of being a poet is different than the
experience of being a technical writer is different from being a science
fiction, but I'm convinced that there are some common features.

Writing, at least for me, is sort of about turning experiences into
words. This isn't some wishy washy practices of translating the feeling
of moments into words; but rather a pretty simple observation about
practices. No matter if I'm writing science fiction stories or systems
administration documentation, my ability to write is always dependent
upon doing things in the world and gathering experience. Without this, I
run out of stored experiences, of "mojo" and my writing becomes flat and
painful, if I can manage to write anything at all.

Now the writing part, after a while becomes pretty straightforward: Sit
down. Figure out where you need to go in a given text and about how long
you have to get there plus a few other variables, like voice and
audience. And then you just sort of let the "experience," part flow out
onto the page [1]_ as you sort of mold the thoughts into the path you
need to follow.

And this leaves the walking through the world part. It's reflexive and
feels normal, until you realize that you are instinctively collecting
images, snippets of speech, moments, situations, little stories, and
other bits of miscellany, in some master database in your head. Every
conversation becomes an experiment in expressing an idea or a theory.
It's not so overt that it makes "living" difficult, or conversations
awkward (though it does sometimes), but I sometimes have to remind
myself that what's going on in my head isn't what's going on in
everyone's head. No really.

Another problem with being a writer is that, *everyone* writes, or knows
how to, at least in the abstract. Some folks don't like it, and some
folks aren't particularly "skilled written communicators," but we all
know how to do it. This isn't the case for a lot of professions,
disciplines, or even hobbies. Not everyone can write a computer program,
not everyone can knit a sweater, or cook a meal, or analyze great
amounts of data, engineer more advanced agricultural technologies and
crops, and so forth.

This creates some tension: since so many people know how to write, and
yet most people *don't* as a matter of course, there is some
mystification around what writing requires. "What are you doing this
weekend," they'll ask. "I was thinking of staying home and writing, and
maybe going for a walk or two," I say gleefully. "That sounds dull, and
don't you " they say. "Well, yes, but it sounds amazing. I wonder if I
have enough food to get me through the weekend," I say. Welcome to my
life.

Despite all this I nearly always feel like a cheat and a fake. My
fiction is totally unpublished, and I'm not sure I'm writing in the
correct direction, or doing the right things to be able to really have
an active fiction writing career in the next 7-10 years. I'm constantly
unsure about the success of the blog: it's self published, sometimes it
feels like I don't have any reviewers outside of friends and
readers-who-have-become-friends. And while I'm quite pleased and proud
of what I've been able to accomplish at work, and I think that We/I've
been able to be pretty successful, I'm really part of a team and what I
write is so terribly niche.

I think that's the other part of being a writer that's so strange. No
matter how much of it you do, no matter how much of your income is the
direct result of the way you commit words to paper (or emacs buffer):
you're still *just another hacker*.

But maybe this is true for everyone. I can accept that. I hope you all
have a good day.

.. [1]
Wow, I used a dead-tree metaphor. Have no fear, when I say "page" I
really mean `emacs
buffer <http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Buffers.html#Buffers>`__.

