================
Ideas are Cheap?
================

.. post:: 2008-05-30
   :author: tychoish

Here's another post in the vein of "what I'm thinking about this new
site and why I'm interested in doing it." Another excerps from the
interview I did with myself.

**I hear that ideas are thick on the ground, and follow through isn't.
To the point that I've heard people talk about follow through as *the*
quality of a writer. What are your thoughts on this?**

I've stumbled across people (mostly `Mur <http://www.murverse.com/>`__,
I guess talk about how ideas (for stories, but all kinds of creative
ideas) are thick on the ground, but that the real magic of being a
writer is "follow through:" getting ideas into words. Everyone who reads
has ideas, pretty much, and it's easy to say "wouldn't it be cool to
write a story with telepathic goblin-zombies fighting post-singular AIs
around titan looking for the ruins of an ancient civilization there,
except it's not on Titan, because Earth got too hot after the sun turned
into a red dwarf..." and somewhat harder to actually write the story. Or
at least it requires a greater time commitment.

And for some reason, the proposition that ideas are thick on the ground
and that all ideas are equal save the energy put into the execution, is,
I think, not entirely true.

I for one, am not particularly good coming up with ideas. Aside from
just being silly and pulling out "wouldn't it be nifty if..." scenarios,
in *the entire time I've been writing, which for the purposes of this
question is years and years*, I've come up with like three setups/worlds
for stories and like four plots. I might be minimizing slightly, but not
much. I almost never come up with new ideas, unless I say to myself "ok,
self it's time to come up with something new," and even then I get
something even vaguely useable.

At the same time I think follow through is incredibly important, so I
think the main thrust of the argument is solid, even if it does leave me
with a sort of bad taste in my mouth.

--------------

On(ward and) Up(ward)!

