===================================
In Favor of Group Blogs and Efforts
===================================

.. post:: 2009-03-25
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, new-media

I wrote in "`The Advertising
Bubble <http://tychoish.com/posts/the-advertising-bubble/>`__\ " that
one of the ways to more effectively monetize content and "do better on
the Internet," was to combine efforts with other content producers. The
key thought here is that, people only have so much time, and cooperation
can allow you and your fellow content producers to pool resources,
readers' attention, and business strategies.

I've also thought of this post as the "just because Wordpress, can be
installed in a handful of minutes doesn't mean you should," post. The
tools (and skills) required to build websites are fast, easy, and
non-technical (by now) so that anyone can have a blog, or a website, or
(hell, with enough time/money) a full fledged social networking site to
rival digg or facebook. Just because sites are easy to build, it doesn't
mean that we need to build new sites. Just because independence is
possible, it's not always called for.

There are a lot of readers on the Internet, but there are only so many
hours in the day. And having a dynamic site with new content, is
something that requires a *lot* of work. Lots of people can pull it off,
but a lot of people (with really good things to say) can't. This is sort
of the dirty underbelly of the fact that the Internet (and open source)
is a great democratizing force: because everyone speaks easily and
freely, the challenge to being heard isn't opportunity, it's shear
volume.

I talk with a lot of people about working with the Internet, about using
the internet to promote and build various kinds of projects, about
blagging, and about strategies for success. There are things that I can
help people do better like having good designs, writing top heavy
content (I'm bad at this), ideas for more content, strategies for
posting regularly, places to network with the communities that you hope
to speak to, and among other tactics. All of these things *should help*
lead to success; but beyond persistence, creativity, good timing, and a
little entropy I have no good way of beating the "volume problem," given
current conventions.

The solution of encouraging group blogs rather that individual blogs is
a good start. Each bloggers' responsibility to any given site is much
lower than a single blogger's responsibility to their personal site.
There would be fewer (new) blogs as a result of the increase in
collaboration, and possibly a consolidation of existing blogs. We would
also expect to see blogs more tightly focused on niches rather than
individuals: niche focuses tend to do really well on the web with
regards to targeting audiences, so this is a good thing indeed.

Before anyone cries that I'm trying to suppress individuality (or
expression, or identity), this is very much not the case. I think static
websites are really important, my suggestion isn't that people shouldn't
have *websites* it's that they shouldn't *blog* on them (by default).
Given the state of syndication and aggregation content, it's even
possible for folks to have personal websites that aggregate their
content from a number of different sources, [1]_ we get individuality
and dynamic content without dividing efforts or audiences.

There are other solutions (curation springs instantly to mind) to the
"volume problem," and I'll get to those soon. In the mean time,
remember: group blogs are the future.

Onward and Outward!

.. [1] Think of the aggregated personal website as being the inverse of
   services like `ping.fm <http://ping.fm>`__, which blast your content
   to a host of different websites, the personal website should rather
   aggregate content and conversations from other websites into one
   location.
