============
In Real Time
============

.. post:: 2008-11-13
   :author: tychoish

So in the past couple of weeks we've seen the proliferation of a couple
new "real time services," for various kinds of data.
`Enjit <http://enjit.com>`__ brings real time data from
`friendfeed <http://www.friendfeed.com>`__ (which itself aggregates a
lot of data pretty close to real time), and then there's
`tweet.im <http://www.tweet.im/>`__ which *finally* brings something
approaching real time twitter interaction back to those of us who have
`been begging for a real time/xmpp twitter interface for a
while <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/micro-jabbering/>`__.

Though to be honest, I think that the lag is a bit more than 30 seconds,
but I'm not sure and I'm not going to quibble for now. Actually I'm not
convinced that this redeems twitter, given the number of other features
that they've turned off (can't delete posts anymore, can't elect to not
receive updates from people you follow, not to mention track) but it's a
start. When they get Oauth and Open Micro Blogging implemented, [1]_ I
won't worry. But in the mean time, there are people on twitter that I
want to be able to talk to, and this is a much appreciated move.

In any case, what this week has taught us is that real time services are
*here*, and that companies and developers are beginning to realize this
and provide services based on that. The man said "you don't need a
weatherman to know which way the wind is blowing," and I don't think you
need an ubergeek to know that realtime is on the way.

--------------

Which means, its my turn--as a resident uberworkflow/user interest
geek--to parse out what this means. You might think that this means that
there are geeks who are wanting as much data as possible as quickly as
possible. But I don't think that's the case. Really i think it's about,
having as much *control* over that data as possible.

`Ken Sheppardson <http://www.kshep.net>`__, one of the folks behind
enjit, talked about wanting to have was all about consuming as much data
as he could. said " I only want a notice every hour or so when
somebody's talking about something I care about, but I want it in time
to participate." (**Edit Note:** I totally flubbed up the reference and
introduction to this section and have edited to make me seem like less
of a dip. Apologies.)

The secret is that real time means *push*, and the truth is I think that
I read *less* content and spend less time reading content that comes at
me real time, than I do reading the same content that I have to check on
in a special client or on a web page. Why?

Because the time/energy spent on checking disappears. So if twitter is
coming at me in an IM, I can trust that there's no reason to visit
twitter.com, unless it's to look at someone new to follow. And it's easy
to tell if I've seen something before, and avoid reading the same
content that people blast all over the internet again and again.
*(Ping.fm, how I hate you).* And when you get your data real-time, it's
easier to make filtering decisions, which is a good thing.

Converging these data streams in real time/xmpp (ff, twitter, laconica,
etc.) means that your data comes to you, not that you get more of it. So
from a usage/workflow perspective, I think this is *wonderful*.

.. [1] So you're probably thinking, how then would twitter make money. I'm
   not, for the record making this argument out of some idiomatic Open
   Culture position, though I'm sympathetic. Rather, I think that Oauth
   and OMB are features that twitter's userbase might value. I'd,
   totally be willing to pay nominal fees for services, like IM and
   track, and text messaging, and the ability to filter that stream?
   Totally worth a few bucks a month. And twitter could totally have
   special features (like their election coverage) be ad supported
   (which would be the most logical solution anyway) and that might be
   really effective. So the next person to say "but twitter has to make
   money somehow, they can't give everything away for free," gets
   branded an uncreative apologist.
