======================
In The Public Interest
======================

.. post:: 2009-09-22
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: economics, politics

I realize that with all `this blabbering I've been doing about social
organizations, and
politics <http://tychoish.com/archive/cooperatives/>`__, particularly
the post on `Health Care
Cooperatives <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/health-care-cooperatives>`__,
some of you may have read something into my thinking that I think is
very much not there. I think this resonates with the way people people
read a certain kind of libertarian streak in Cory Doctorow's work, which
is I think is an uncomfortable association, at least in my reading.

There are two parts of my thinking that I think are important:

First, I think there is a not particularly insignificant range of social
and economic functions that fall into the broad category of the "public
interest," that I think would (and are) ill served by the private
institutions which are their current guardians. This was the crux of the
argument of my health care argument, but I think there are other things
that fall under the public interest: education, banking, "utilities"
(water, sewage, power, TCP/IP data,) health care, and infrastructure
(roads, public transit, rail, power distribution, ), as well as some
operations that benefit from centralized organization like aviation.

Second, I would assert that "Market Forces," are not sufficiently
understood to merit trust in their efficacy. Furthermore, the
large-scale global markets that have ruled supreme in the recent past
tend to sacrifice long-term authenticity, for short term gains at the
expense of individuals. This is the problem with corporations that I've
been harping on for a long time. The way, as far as I can tell to
de-incentivize this kind of economic activity, is to focus economic
development on more smaller ventures and to decrease the importance of
initial capital outlay on business models.

And that's simply not something you can regulate or deregulate around.
To erase the impact of corporate-styled business models on the economy,
you have to hack scarcity in some way. Corporation-sized ventures beat
cooperative-sized ventures today, because in most areas economies of
scale in the production of concrete material, doom cooperative-sized
enterprises. One of the effects of the development of technology in the
next {{few}} [1]_ years will be, I suspect, to decrease the advantages
of economies of scale.

If nothing else it's an interesting time to be alive.

.. [1]
This gets my standard "until the singularity gets here," response, so
before 2030 or 2040. You heard it here first.

