=============================
Independent Media and TealArt
=============================

.. post:: 2004-11-03
   :author: tychoish

Ok, so here's an update on my reading: I'm half way through the third
wave book, and I'm done with the first section of the second wave book.
The third wave book is pretty cool, it addresses a little bit of
everything, and as my last entry expresses I'm not wild about the
"ideal" capitalist inspired globalism. But conflict makes the discourse
interesting and it happens. Anyway, as I was reading about the
independent media websites, which these folks are pressing as being
majorly important to the development of the third wave.

Big Yawn.

Basically they described MetaFilter which is at least in my mind the
original collaborative news type site. They're really easy to run
through open source software, and there's some sort of filter/longer
news related website for everything, and there are a lot of more
centralized collaborative type news sites like QueerDay that fit some
sort of independent media model. But then maybe that's just me. I'm a
friend of Noah Grey, and I've been watching this weblog thing for years,
so the proliferation of independent media on the Internet is something
I've watched intently.

And while I like idealized anarchistic designed communities that end up
working, I think there are ultimately problems with this. First of all,
if there are thousands or even hundreds of sites built on a model (mefi,
photologs, warblogs, punditblogs, etc.) then they loose their intensity,
everyone sprouts the same shit, nothing new gets said, and I think
ultimately the only people who read those types of blogs after a while
are the other bloggers, under which conditions all you have a is a very
disorganized and hard to follow discussion board which would probably be
more efficiently accomplished with a single large discussion board. Or
better yet, a Usenet group (but that's just cause I'm a traditionalist).

While the situations described in the essay weren't extreme, I've seen
extremes (in terms of over proliferation). In terms of photoblogs, in
terms of war blogs. I wasn't around like some people I correspond with,
to remember when there were only a very few web logs, but I do remember
when movements at the forefront of the blogging world, were just a small
number of malcontents. So maybe I'm jaded. Ha. Ok, So I'm jaded. At the
same time, I have the feeling that if everyone is writing the same
things, it gets condensed and retold too much, and the jems are too far
and inbetween, unless you're a communications researcher, or interested
in this kind of thing (which I'll admit to be from time to time) there's
too much to absorb at a raw level and you don't gain anything by reading
the super-condensed versions.

That I think is enough for now.

