========================
infrastructural commerce
========================

.. post:: 2009-07-21
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: economics, technology

I think I've touched on this question before but with the last
`technology as infrastructure
post <http://www.tychoish.com/2009/07/technology-as-infrastructure-act-three/>`__
it seems like another opportunity to talk about the intersections
between this topic--thinking about technology as infrastructure--and
about the sort of `small scale/cooperative
economics <http://www.tychoish.com/2009/05/land-institutions-and-organization/>`__
that I was writing a lot about a couple of months back.

The question on my mind at the moment is, "What do the business models
of technology firms look like, in a software-freedom-loving,
non-corporate/cooperative-business way?"

And I'm not sure what the answers to this question are. Not really. I've
been thinking about business models for the producers of
software/technology services during earlier moments.

We have the example of the 70s and 80s when the prevailing technology
companies were ATT and IBM. ATT made their money selling phone service,
and licensing UNIX. IBM made their money selling mainframes. In the
eighties and nineties we had the prevailing Microsoft lead "proprietary
software licensing" business models, where consumers paid for the legal
write to run code on their computers.

In the nineties and early naughties the successful business models were
either from people buying hardware (ie. Sun Microsystems and IBM) or
people buying support for operating systems (ie. RedHat). We've also
seen some more stable business models centered around
subscriptions-for-services (this seems to be what all the successful
startups are doing), and more of the time honored selling hardware, and
there are some support-services based companies that remain successful
(eg. RedHat), the support market consolidated a lot recently. And it's
not like the Microsoft-consumer model doesn't still exist.

So when we look at "infrastructural technology" it sure looks like there
are some kinds of businesses that will continue to flourish:

-  The people making mainframes/servers and the high level computing
systems that provide the infrastructure.

-  The people who provide the tools that make low level tools successful
and useful to users. (eg. What UbuntuOne provides on top of SSH and
rsync; What gmail provides on top of IMAP; What MobileMe provides
ontop of WebDAV/CalDAV/IMAP).

These strike me as rather conventional business models, given the
history. Does infrastructural computing also:

-  further the development of subscription-based businesses?

-  create a new kind of challenge in customizing solutions for
organizations and groups that translate raw resources into "finished
output?" Is this too much like IMAP --> Gmail?

-  [other possibilities created by you, here]

I'm trying to approach this by asking myself "what creates value in this
market," rather than "where's the money." It strikes me that value
exists in making systems "work" in a way that's customized to the task
at hand. It strikes me that value is created when individuals and
organizations are able to take ownership of their own data and
computing. Gmail is valuable, but running my own IMAP server is more
valuable. Running my own IMAP server without the fuss of needing to
personally manage the hardware and software of the server is even more
valuable.

What else does the hive mind have for us?

