=============================
Interview with Michael Pobega
=============================

.. post:: 2009-11-10
   :author: tychoish and Michael Pobega
   :tags: interview

- **Who are you? What do you?**

I'm a 19 year old Perl hacker slash college student. I'm a Computer
Science major at SUNYIT in Utica. To be truthful, I'm not a very good
student; I spent my study hours teaching myself Perl and UNIX.

As for my personal life, I live one boat ride away from Manhattan, so
when I do have time home it's pretty hectic. Being upstate for college
is so ... quaint, compared to living in the big city.

I'm not really working on any large projects, but I am in the midst of
working on a very lightweight an elegant blog software; the goal is to
have one page (index.pl), one RSS feed (feed.rss) and one template file
(template.html), and combine them all into a fully-functional blog. Then
hopefully after that project is done I'll have the time to run my
Sysadmin blog -- I plan on publicising a lot of the random hacks I make
at work. For example, I just spent the last two days working on a daemon
that uses Net::DBus to automatically log a user out when a preset idle
time is reached.

- **Smaller Computers, More Powerful Computers, or Cheaper Computers?**

Smaller, generally. I like saving money, and I love netbooks. As I
always say, the speed of the computer is up to the knowledge of the user
installing the software on it. My EeePC 901 running Debian GNU/Linux
runs as fast as most "modern" computers running Windows Vista.

- **Lets talk about technology: What kind of technology do you use, and
what's the coolest thing that technology enables for you? What about
your technology do you find frustrating?**

I love the freedom of expression technology brings. Being universal,
it's hard to apply country-wide laws to internet use which opens up a
whole new realm of free speech for those who previously haven't had it.
But PERSONALLY, I just enjoy tinkering, learning and achieving goals.
Nothing feels as good as finally finishing that program you've been
working on for the last week.

What I find frustrating is the amount of outdated documentation you run
into. The reason I spent so long on my Net::DBus script is because the
docs I was using were outdated. Thankfully buu on #perl pointed me to
Net::DBus::Dumper, and I figured everything out myself.

- **Favorite Linux/UNIX Command (whatever, as long as it fits on one
line.)?**

vi, of course :]

Or if you mean a singular shell command, it's probably between perl, sed
and awk. Those three programs have saved me countless hours of file
editing.

- **The single scariest thing about the future?**

Google SkyNet(tm)

- **Favorite Website?**

Hmm ... Considering I don't browse the web too much, I'd have to go with
http://latfh.com/. The laughs never stop coming.

- **What do you think is going to be the most important event of the
next 10 years?**

This one's hard to say. I think it can be one of three things;

1. The development of high-functioning AI

2. Using computers to replace non-functioning human senses (eyesight,
smell, etc)

3. Apple publicly announcing that their computers are overpriced

- **One thing that you wish you could learn?**

French. For some reason I can't seem to wrap my brain around spoken
language.

- **Emacs vs. Vi**

vi, of course :]

I mean, don't get me wrong; Emacs is a great operating system, but it's
lacking a good text editor.

- Where can we find more about you/your projects?

Currently I don't have a site setup, but when I do it will be at any of
these locations:

- http://web.cs.sunyit.edu/~pobegam/

- http://fuzzydev.org/

- http://fuzzydev.org/~pobega

Or you can just follow me on [Identica,
@pobega](http://www.identi.ca/pobega/)

