=============================
Interview with Scott Farquhar
=============================

.. post:: 2009-10-13
   :author: tychoish and Scott Farquhar
   :tags: interview

Today's installment in the interview series is Scott Farquhar. Rather
than spend a long time blathering about it, let me just get on with it.
Shall we?

-  Who are you? What do you?

Who are any of us, really? Right now I don't seem to be doing much but
working at my old house and getting it ready to rent. But what I hope to
go back to doing after I'm done is the main project of my Royalty Free
Music podcast. The break away has been good in some ways. Once I get
enough music to produce a commercial CD, I will probably lay that
project aside and move on to the next shiny object.

-  Jet Packs or Hovercars?

As exciting and thrilling as the Jet Pack might be, I think I'd have to
go with the Hovercar so I could carry more stuff with me.

-  Lets talk about technology: What kind of technology do you use, and
what's the coolest thing that technology enables for you? What about
your technology do you find frustrating?

I think I have to hold up my digital orchestra package as the niftiest
piece of technology that I have in my personal arsenal. It essentially
let's me have access to creating music with actual sampled orchestral
instruments. If I want to write something for 5 violas, timpani, bass
trombone, and english horn, I can... and relatively quickly have an
accurate idea of what it will sound like without having to look for and
pay those 8 musicians and get them all together to record. The
frustrating aspect is that the music created is grounded in equal
temperament, so it's got that flat, slightly out-of-tune sound that just
doesn't sound quite right. Perhaps it is a good frustration, since it's
clear that no matter how good technology will get, live musicians (and
by extension into other areas of technology... people in general) just
can't be replaced.

-  Favorite Star Trek Series?

The original series. As neat and slick as the newer stuff has been,
there's just something about the original.

-  The single scariest thing about the future?

At the risk of sounding like a complete bastard... It seems like it's
mostly the stupid (rude/inconsiderate/narrow-minded) people who are
breeding. \|soapbox\| Humans are overpopulating this planet, with an
ever increasing percentage of the overall population also contributing
less and less. I honestly feel like my lifetime will see the beginnings
of major strains on more basic resources like water and food, much less
the fossil fuels more people are worried about right now. \|/soapbox\|

-  Favorite Website?

Working with the idea of "favorite" being some nifty thing to share with
other people (like favorite ice cream, etc.) then I'll have to pick
NetFlix. I may visit other sites more often right now, but this is one I
think other folks should check out, even though I think most people have
probably already heard about it.

-  What do you think was the most important event of the last 15 years?

In a world context, I'll have to say what I will call "The Rise of the
Internet"... Sure, one can trace origins back as early as the 60s even,
but it really was about 15 years ago that it started to become what it
is today. In a personal context, it was buying a home... 'cause it
started to make me feel like I'd finally grown up.

-  One thing that you wish you could learn?

I've always wanted to learn how to tap dance. Perhaps, one day...

-  Cats vs. Dogs

I do like dogs, and live with one. But I am really very much a cat
person. They suit my personality much better.

-  Where can we find more about you/your projects?

-  `Personal Website <http://www.scottfarquhar.com>`__

-  `Music Website <http://www.splungemusic.com>`__

-  `The Clams of Wisdom <http://clamsofwisdom.com>`__

Oh, and I am "composerscott" on
`facebook <http://www.facebook.com/composerscott>`__,
`livejournal <http://composerscott.livejournal.com>`__, and
`twitter <http://www.twitter.com/composerscott>`__.

