=======================
Interview, Rich Russell
=======================

.. post:: 2009-10-01
   :author: tychoish and richard russell
   :tags: interview, academia

I had this idea a few weeks ago, that to break things up during a
particularly hectic part of my life--finishing a book, traveling,
singing, and so forth--that I'd talk to some of the cool people I know
on the Internet and elsewhere, and conduct a little interview series
where I'd get to introduce you to some of the really interesting people
that I've met in my travels thusfar, and ask them some questions about
what they do, what they're interested in and up to in the world.

The first entry in this series is by my friend Rich Russell who has a
rather and I hope you enjoy this as much as I did.

--------------

- **Who are you? What do you?**

I was supposed to be a Rachel. So when mom regained consciousness and
dad told her he had named me Richard, you can imagine her initial
confusion. And then when my sister was born and I, who liked to
sometimes pretend to be a girl when I was little (it was the eighties,
after all; what of it?), was confronted by this actual Rachel, you can
imagine how threatened I felt; there could be only one Rachel in our
house, after all, and the jig was up for me. *Rachel is dead; long live
Rachel!* So robbed of my infant identity, I later became a teacher, like
my mom, which was either flattering identification with her or an
attempt at character annexation, I can't decide which.

- **Handmade or Store bought?**

Handmade

- ***Really?***

Well, unless I have to sew it, carpenter it, cobble it, tan it, cure it,
or cook it myself; in which case, store bought.

- **Lets talk about technology: What kind of technology do you use, and
what's the coolest thing that technology enables for you? What about
your technology do you find frustrating?**

I'm teaching a few classes online this semester, so it's nice to be able
to work with students who might not otherwise be able to attend school,
due to their hectic family and/or work schedules. (We use the Blackboard
Learning System, in case you're looking for shameless plugs that might
generate ad revenue: "Blackboard Learning System, connecting students
with their teachers and their futures.")

And my sister lives out in L.A. now, so it's nice that we can video chat
once a week over coffee; there's an added saccharin intimacy established
by the video element. Because it's not real togetherness, is it? It's a
kind of ersatz togetherness between my sister and me, the ersatz Rachel.
E.M. Forster, in *Howard's End*, compels us to, "Only connect!" I don't
know what that means anymore, though, when I'm teaching online or
talking to my sister over Skype. Even when the wireless has a strong
connection, I think, "This isn't what Forster meant at all." He meant
that there would be nothing between human beings -- and other beings --
except ourselves. I feel, in some ways, here has risen the connection
that repels. We believe we are closer; we believe we are connected,
unless Comcast is being a fuck-up. But, like my one student who says he
has taken so many of his classes online at this point that he's afraid
to enter a real classroom and interact synchronously with fleshy
classmates, have we lost the ability to be intimate? What does
'intimate' even mean anymore?... (But I love my iPhone. But I realize
that is a manufactured desire.)

- **Favorite Post-structuralist/Post-modernist? Who are the runners
up?**

I was going to go with "Freddie" Jameson, because I loved what we read
of him when I read him back in a Post-modernism course at the New School
with Professor Joshua Gaylord (lol *gay lord*) in 2002. Or Roland
Barthes; but I'm sure a lot of people will go with R.B. So I think I'll
choose Angela Carter instead, especially for her novel *The Passion of
New Eve*, which still haunts me nine years after I first read it; some
of the most sublime moments in all of literature. Runners-up: Muriel
Spark, Laurence Sterne. (Miss Congeniality: Russell Edson.)

- **The single scariest thing about the future?**

The future is neither good nor bad.

- **Favorite Website?**

I subscribe to *The Atlantic* but still find myself spending a lot of
time on `theatlantic.com <http://theatlantic.com>`__.

- **What do you think was the most important event of the last 15
years? What's going to be the most important thing about the next 10
years?**

9/11/99; I had been living in New York for about three weeks then. I was
about to fall in love. It would be like a holocaust. (This is all about
me, after all, isn't it? Or did you mean for humankind in general? Yes,
I suppose that's what you must've meant; well...) In ten years, the most
important thing *for humankind* (and not just me) will be to see what we
have done to this planet. This feels like a lame response, because it's
so chic right now to care about the planet (I've always cared!), but I
am curious to see. Will there be sulfur aerosol sprays diffused into the
atmosphere like in *Blade Runner*? Will there be flying cars like we've
been promised there would be flying cars ever since *The Jetsons*? (FYI:
I think we're past wanting flying cars, aren't we? I'd be more happy for
some high-speed rail.) Will I ever get to see a narwhal?

- **One thing that you wish you could learn?**

I would like to read all of Proust. Because I have masochistic
tendencies. And I like small buttery sponge cakes.

- **Edmund Spenser or John Milton?**

Milton, hands down. I never did make it through all of *The Faerie
Queene*\ (lol *faerie queene*). That old Spenserian scheme drives me
coo-coo after awhile; I do believe it is the rhythm of madness.

- **Where can we find more about you/your projects?**

`I blog <http://lifeofrichie.wordpress.com>`__ and am `rarjr on
twitter <http://www.twitter.com/rarjr>`__.

