=========================
Interview with Judy Stein
=========================

.. post:: 2009-10-28
   :author: tychoish and Judy Stein
   :tags: interview

Here's another interview for the interview series file. Enjoy!

- **Who are you? What do you?**

I've had lots of jobs, but at the moment I only have three: running a
folk club, host= ing a radio show, and teaching ballad-singing at the
Folk School. Two of these are volunteer jobs. I am also a 40/50-hour per
week babysitter for my 2-year-old grandson and adult in charge at my
house. I have recently acquired a sewing machine and a few art supplies,
and got my concertina back from a friend who borrowed it; the projects,
they will come.

Ongoing activities for years include folk dancing, especially Border
Morris. I have been dancing, I reckon, for roughly 51 years. Singing,
roughly 60; collecting songs maybe 53. Reading, since before I started
school. (I read history, detective stories, and Kipling, mostly. I will
also pick up= anything by Terry Pratchett, and have only been
disappointed once there. I like Shakespeare, don't care for Thomas Hardy
or most poetry.)

Things I can do well enough to have made money at, either occasionally
or on a regular basis: Drawing and painting. Sewing in a pants factory.
General assistance in a doctor's office. Singing. Belly-dancing.
Salesclerk-type selling: candy, pictures and mirrors. Writing. Teaching
mentally ill and/or learning disabled children. All these jobs have
their ups and downs.

As for Intellectual stuff: I admire but do not have the temperament for
heavy-duty intellectualism: teaching has made my natural instinct for
pragmatism even stronger, and too much nitpicky defining and speculation
becomes boring to= me fairly quickly. Also there is a heavy-handedness
that goes with too muc= h categorizing; I like exceptions to rules.

- **Jet Packs or Hovercars?**

They both sound like fun!

- **Lets talk about technology: What kind of technology do you use, and
what's the coolest thing that technology enables for you? What about
your technology do you find frustrating?**

I am a fairly backward person technology-wise: I'd say things like "the
wheel" or maybe "cars" or "dishwashers" here. And I do like my computer.
I also like binoculars. And shoes that actual ly fit your feet, that's
technology. Digital cameras have proved convenient but slightly
disappointing: they don't move fast enough. Cellphones are a mixed
blessing too: they always need charging, and people expect you to HAVE
one.

- **Favorite song at the moment? Tune? Who are the runners up?**

Song, at the moment: Dick Gaughan singing "Fair Flooer of
Northumberland" or Louis Killen singing "April Morning." or Peter
Bellamy singing "We Have Fed Our Sea," or Pete Morton singing "Another
Train."

Tune: "Orange in Bloom/Sherbourne Waltz," and there are *millions* of
runners-up. I like shapenote hymns when someone else is singing them,
but am too much of an anarchist to like following dots myself. Plus I am
rather surly about church, and all the praise-the-Lord-ing gets to me
sometimes. There is no why; there usually isn't, with what I like. I
could come up with one if I tried, but I am not by na= ture very
introspective.

- **Favorite Website?**

Wikipedia, for one. YouTube. Gutenberg Press. Sky and Telescope. Amazon.

- **What do you think was the most important event of the last 15
years?**

The ongoing growth of the Internet--a new Wild West. :D

- **One thing that you're most looking forward to in the next year?**

Reclaiming a few lost skills (see the first question)

- **One thing that you wish you could learn?**

Gardening. Actually, I'm not sure "wish" is the correct word: if I want
to know something I can get a fair start on doing it. But I do intend to
try my hand at making a proper garden next spring.

- **Doctor Who v. Red Dwarf?**

Dr. Who: mostly because I've never seen Red Dwarf but maybe once...

- **Where can we find more about you/your projects?**

`The Focal Point <http://www.thefocalpoint.org>`__; `The
LiveJournal <http://metallumai.livejournal.com>`__; `Folk
School <http://www.folk-school.com>`__, or by asking me!

