==============================
Integrated Writing Environment
==============================

.. post:: 2009-02-10
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: programming, writing, cyborg, technology

My `post about information
buckets <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/information-buckets/>`__ got me
thinking, thanks to some other things that have filtered through my
awareness in the last few weeks, about integrated development
environments.

See, a couple years ago, I used everything buckets like *mad*, they were
the application of the future, the software that seemed to just scratch
every itch. I don't know that I used them as general databases for
*everything* but I did all of my writing and research-related tasks in
them, and it was great.

The articles I read where there, along with the notes that I made, along
with citation information, along with the final paper. Along with all of
my previous papers and articles. I never had to go look for things
*again*, it was all there.

This is similar to an IDE, or integrated development environment, which
is a class of applications that have some measure of popularity amongst
computer programmers. IDE's generally (and I'm not clear on this, as
I've never used one) provide tools for managing large projects and
integrate with code-compilers, debugging tools, version control tools,
multi-file project managers, and code browsers which allow you to find
related parts of code across an entire project without scrolling through
a lot of files. I think there's probably some debate on weather these
are *good* things for programmers (objections would include that they
make for lazy/poor practices, and that IDE components do lots of things
poorly) but generally I suspect they are good things. And as it turns
out most of our beloved text-editors have a lot of IDE-like
functionality anyway.

In a way, the information bucket provides an IDE-like environment for
the information worker or writer. And that's sort of a cool way of
looking at this. Indeed, I think writers need *better* integrated
environments, there are a lot of tools that I think we could benefit
from. While I've been working on these posts, I've also been working on
posts about the emacs `org-mode <http://www.orgmode.org>`__, and while
they're ultimately not directly connected, I think something *like*
org-mode is a great boon to writers and information workers. Integrated
systems that manage citations, references, and notes are essential, as
well as other helpful features that might include managing output,
structure, and version control.

I hack most of these features together in emacs with some help from
LaTeX, git, and BibTeX, but I recognize that this isn't ideal or for
everyone. There are other applications that aren't "information
buckets," but provide writing environments that aren't hacked from
programing tools (emacs) or desktop publishing tools (MS Word). For
example:
`Scrivener <http://www.literatureandlatte.com/scrivener.html>`__ that
provides a clever way to write longer form documents with structure, and
`Celtex <http://celtx.com/>`__ that provides all sorts of screenplay
writing tools (outlines, storyboards, character databases) and script
management tools. Celtex even calls itself an "Integrated Media
Pre-production" tool.

I'm not sure that these are the ideal tools for this task. Any of them.
I'm partial to my solution, but I end up having to do a lot of informal
organization to make it all stick together. So I wonder, what kind of
software do other writers to keep all their ducks in a row?

More later. Of course.

