==================
Intro to HyperText
==================

.. post:: 2007-03-16
   :author: tychoish

*Hypertext? Why talk about hypertext? No one's thought very much about
hypertext in years, let alone written a series of blog posts about
hypertext, who cares?*

Well I do, and since I foot the bill around here, I'm going to. *So
there.*

Actually, as I was writing the productivity series, I realized that one
of my personal productivity goals of the past year or so has been to be
as compleatly paperless as I can mange. The less paper I have, the less
there is to move, and this means that (theoretically) I can be better
organized. The truth is that as a result of this drive to remove paper
from my "workflow" I've collected a sizeable number of PDF files (a
gigabyte or so). Though I'm a huge proponent of PDF (I suppose there
will be more on this in the future), PDF files are effectivly "digital
paper," and while more useful, they behave and function just like paper.
Thus I've come to believe that this isn't a digital revolution, but
really moving from one bad system to one that is only marginally more
usefull.

I don't think it takes a lot of faith to belive that computer generated
text present a lot of very clear benefits over its typeset counterparts.
It's easily reproduceable, it's small, it's portable, there are
virtually no production or distrobution costs, it's searchable, it's
dynamic, and it's enviromental. I'm sure you could come up with a few
more on your own as well.And while people do a lot of reading on
computer screens (the success of blogs, which revolve primarily around
text, are a testiment to this), yet eBooks have not yet proven
themselves successful. In this series I want to explore this qunadry a
little bit more. What seperates paper from pixels in practice? in terms
of production *and* consumption?

While I will gladly accept that eBook technology is not yet fully
developed--and `Cory Doctrow <http://www.craphound.com/bio.php>`__ is
compleatly right that
`DRM <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_Rights_Management>`__
presents a major road block to this development--there is another piece
of the "electronic literature" puzzel missing. In an effort to explore
what this piece(s) is/are, I think a renewed conversation about
hypertext/hypermedia is worthwhile.

In addition to being digital, hypertext is characterized by `Theodor
Holm Nelson <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ted_Nelson>`__ as having a
non-linear structure created by "links," much like the links that we see
throughout this website and by inclusions or transclusions, where in
(potentially dynamic) blocks of text are pushed through into other
refering pages. We see some of this on the internet these days, thanks
to the fairly standard use of dynamic markup lanauges like
`PHP <http://www.php.net/>`__. I don't mean to suggest that this series
will be a study of hypertext on the internet, because my attempt here is
to discuss the form and structure of digital text, rather than the
network and cultural aspects of the World Wide Web (when was the last
time someone called it that?), but clearly there will be some overlap.
Nelson (1987) is clearly a large influence on these writing--and in
fairness I should note that I'm not anywhere near done with his book,
hell I'm not even sure I'm reading *Literary Machines* correctly--but I
think that it goes without saying that the internet itself has changed,
and simultaniously changed the way that we operate computers and
interact with hypertext(s).

Now that we're on the same page...

This series, I hope will allow us both to explore the practicalities and
implications of consuming and producing hypertext. While I am by no
means a communications studies expert, or a skilled literary artist, I
do read a great deal of digital text, and write a lot of content that
never makes it on to paper. And I think about this a fair amount. With
luck this will mean something. In addtion to thinking about how
hypertext affects reading and writing, I think that we'll aslo tuch upon
the impacts on publication and the distrobution of text. This means
broaching the DRM subject, and I should say now, that I'm not nearly
enough of an expert on this as perhaps I should be, but I think that at
least some consideration of the topic is worthwhile and necessary.

I also hope to consider some "emerging" media forms including XML,
Wikis, the blog, RSS, Pod/Net/Vid-casts, as they fit into the basic
questions of reading and writing text. And I would also be remiss as a
blogger if I didn't mention the influence of the discussions in academe
regaruding "`Open
Access <http://www.earlham.edu/~peters/fos/overview.htm>`__\ " to
scholorly publications, as I've been thinking about this series and the
articles contained within.

With that, I think that we're sufficently introduced, and I hope that
we're all on the same page regarding Hypertext. If you have any
interests related to an aspect of Hypertext that I straight out forgot
to mention, or have any thoughts, please be in touch. I'll see you all
next week with more on this.

Cheers, tycho

