==============
iPad Reactions
==============

.. post:: 2010-02-09
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg

Ok, as a self-respecting geek, I think I have to say something about
this whole "iPad" thing.

I'm not as much of an Apple geek as I used to be, that's for sure. It's
not that I don't think that Apple's doing something quasi-innovative and
useful in the world of technology and the business around consumer
technology. I think bringing UNIX to the hands of "mass market" desktop
users was a *great* move. Although the iTunes Store is not without it's
issues and concerns, the fact that Apple was able to create a viable
environment and market that allowed people to exchange money for
software and content is probably a good thing. And Apple has brought to
a general public a number of hardware configuration (in recent years)
that I think make a lot of sense: the mini-tablet (iPhone/iPod Touch),
laptops with usable battery lives, the pocket jukebox (iPod Classic,)
and so forth.

*Deep breath*. Having said that... I'm not terribly impressed with the
iPad, or moved by it's potential at the moment. I know Apple often takes
a few generations to make something really *work*, and so I think it's
important to not say "this implementation sucks, and so the whole notion
sucks, and is with out merit." Of all the things that I've heard (or
said,) in the past few weeks of the iPad the following two threads have
stood out:

- I'm really quite interested to see what other makers are going to be
doing in this space. What's the Lenovo tablet going to look like? HP?
One of the leading complaints about the iPad (and iPhone) is Apple's
total-lock-down over the platform, and I think an Android tablet, or
a super Nokia N900 is likely to be much more open and killer awesome.

- I'm interested to see what the iPad platform looks like in a revision
or two. Add an SD slot? Multi-tasking? Additional input methods? It
could look really awesome, and while I have misgivings (see below) I
don't want to write it off entirely.

At the same time, I don't really feel like there's an in-between device
that I don't currently have that I'd like to have. In a lot of ways,
even I feel like I have too many devices, too many inboxes (of one sort
or another), and too much technology to manage. I'm not complaining. The
truth of the matter is that my laptop gets great battery life, isn't
very big at all, and does *everything* I need of a computer, and almost
everything I need of technology in general. iPods are better for playing
music if I'm moving around or in the car, and the Kindle is great for
what it is, and I do sort of have a Blackberry habit.. but...

My technological challenge at the moment is that I don't have enough
time to get done that which I would like to get done, not that I have a
situation where I could be more productive if I only I had a device that
would do something more." That's not something that seems to cross my
mind very much. It might be nice to have a slightly more accessible
emacs instance that I could use to enter snippets of text and work on
things in the kinds of moment. I'm thinking a Nokia N900 might fit that
bill pretty well, but I'm not sure.

If you're thinking about getting an iPad, what's the niche that you see
it filing? Do you have a niche that seems like it might be iPad sized?

