==========================================
Is Dropbox the Mobile File System Standard
==========================================

.. post:: 2011-10-18
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, mobile-technology, open-source, file-systems

I've started using Dropbox on my Android devices recently (and my laptop
as a result, [1]_) and I'm incredibly impressed with the software *and*
with the way that this service is a perfect example of the kind of web
services that we need to see more of. While I have some fairly
uninteresting concerns about data security and relying on a service that
I'm not administrating personally, I think it's too easy to get caught
up the implications of where the data lives and forget what the
implications of having "just works," file syncing between every
computer.

I used to think that the thing that kept mobile devices from being
"real" was the fact that they couldn't sell "post-file system" computer
use. I'm not sure that we're ready to do away with the file system
metaphor yet. I think Dropbox is largely successful because it brings
files back and makes them available in a way that makes sense for mobile
devices.

The caveat is that it provides a file system in a way that makes sense
in the context for these kinds of "file systemless" platforms. Dropbox
provides access to files, but in a way that doesn't require applications
(or users) to have a firm awareness of "real files. Best of all, Dropbox
(or similar) can handle all of the synchronization, so that every
application doesn't need to have its own system.

This might mean that Dropbox is the first functionally Unix-like mobile
application. I think (and hope) that Dropbox's success will prove to be
an indicator for future development. Not that there will be more file
syncing services, but that mobile applications and platforms will have
applications that "do one thing well," and provide a functionality upon
which other applications can build awesome features.

--------------

This isn't to say that there aren't other important issues with Dropbox.
Where your data lives *does* matter, who controls the servers that your
data lives on is important. Fundamentally, Dropbox isn't doing anything
technologically complicated. When I started writing the post, I said
"oh, it wouldn't be too hard to get something similar set up," and while
Dropbox does seem like the relative leader, it looks like there is a
fair amount of competition. That's probably a good thing.

So despite the concerns about relying on a proprietary vendor and about
trusting your data on someone else's server, data has to go *somewhere*.
As long as users have choices and options, and there are open ways of
achieving the same ends, I think that these issues are less important
than many others.

.. [1] To be fair, I'm using it to synchronize files to the Android
   devices, and not really to synchronize files between machines: I
   have a server for simple file sharing, and git repositories for the
   more complex work. So it's not terribly useful for
   desktop-to-desktop sharing, But for mobile devices? Amazing.
