========================================================
It\&#039;s Either Sexist or Fraught with Binary Thinking
========================================================

.. post:: 2004-10-25
   :author: tychoish

*Ha! Thought I couldn't use "fraught" in an entry title. Well I can!
Anyway, this entry is yet another brainstorming (ie. I want to think
about the paper, and I want to feel productive without actually writing
the paper yet, so I'm going to write about something that actually
interests me) for a paper, sprinkled with a little gender theory thrown
in for good measure.*

So I'm writing this psych paper, and I'm really dreading it. Not because
I think I'm ill-equipped to write it, or that I think I'm incapable, or
even that I think she'll grade harshly (because everything else I've
written for her has a mean grade of 99%). Rather, I think I'm worried
because I feel like I have to do amazingly well on this cause I want to
major in psych. A.W. talks about a similar sort of pressure about
needing to do perfectly on certain classes relating to his major. So I'm
not *that* weird, ok, maybe I am, just don't pick on me.

Psychology is really interesting, and I like it, but I do have some
problems with how psychologists deal with gender issues. This doesn't
surprise me, but I think I should voice it. I think it's particularly
problematic now, when I don't really have the knowledge base, or the
authority to make the kinds of objections that I want to. In time.

On the most basic level, I feel psychology doesn't make room for gender
variance, and in general is to biologically bassed. But then my prof is
a neuroscience, brain chemistry type, and I suppose I'd be worried if
she wasn't grounded in biology. Any "acceptance" of gender variance is
quickly shuffled away towards transexualism, which despite its
"unconventionality" reinforces the binary, and doesn't really solve
anything. The way that "The Book" (dr. george H\_\_\_, that one, you
know, the book) pathologizes gender varience isn't helpful, and
psychologists generally follow this general approach.

Moving on.

The other main objection that I have is that it seems to me that our
ways of conceptualizing of human psychology (especially the
neuroscience/cognative bits, but other things as well) are viewed in
binary terms. Let me preface my example by saying that, I'm working on
the understanding that any conceptualizing of difference as dualism is
inherently gendered. Whenever we think of different ideas as being
either/or, it reflects upon our understanding of gender as limited to
two option based upon our understanding of gender. For instance I have
this interesting diagram, which describes long-term memory and it shows
one binary after another. Now I'm not saying that this is implicitly
wrong, just that binary is pervasive (hence the title.)

So that's where I am at the moment.

Enjoy, and I'll try not to be such a stranger.

