===========
Java and Me
===========


`Stan <http://schwertly.com>`__ reminded me recently that I have now
written *two* posts about the Java programing and software development.
For something that I admittedly don't particularly care for, and don't
know a great deal about I've sure ranted a lot about it. I think I keep
returning to think about Java because of how incredibly important Java
is to the technology we use and how prevalent Java development remains.

Maybe I've read too much by `Red Monk <http://redmonk.com/>`__ folks,
but they tend take a very productive approach to these kinds of things.
For reference, my posts on the subject are:

- `Caring about
  Java <http://criticalfutures.com/2011/02/caring-about-java/>`__ and

- `Where is Java
  Today <http://criticalfutures.com/2010/03/where-is-java-today/>`__

Most "end-users" don't really care much about things like Java except
when it doesn't work, as is the case when some component of the Java
platform isn't present when you want to run a Java program or when you
run a "cross platform" java application that doesn't really work as
indented on your platform. For a long time these two issues were
prevalent enough that being written in Java was a decernable quality of
an application. In most situations, computer programs are just computer
programs.

With one exception.

The way software developers use computers and interface with technology
leads and constrains the technological reality for the rest of us. For
instance, in Google Reader you can scroll up and down using the "j" and
"k" keys, which is derived from interaction paradigm of the Vi text
editors. It's great, but was almost certainly put into the software
because a developer on the project was a Vi user. While a most features
are driven by formal design processes, so much of the way software works
is lead by the way developers think about software.

Ultimately Java developers are what make Java is important, not just for
me but for everyone.
