========================
Just Poke it at a Possum
========================

.. post:: 2004-11-21
   :author: tychoish

Love it is an awful thing and beauty is a blossom, and if you want
your finger bit, just poke it at a possum.

Glory to the meetinghouse, and glory to the stable, and glory to the
little girl, the one that they call Mabel.

The above are lines from a Old Time-ish song/tune that I'm generally
fond of. If you were wondering, but you probably won't.

Just for the purpose of meta-talk, I'd like to note for the record that
I *always* write blog entries in an MS Word document, and then copy and
paste them into the blog script. This is because I fear for posts that
don't have the benefit of my spell check, and because I like to write
blog entries in a few sessions. Perhaps this is part of the reason why I
don't write that much: because I add another step. One of these days I'm
going to be really daring and post without doing the word file step.

For those of you who are worrying about the progress of the stalled
redesign, I've got a file which should help a lot from a dear friend,
actually I don't think he's a dear friend, but he's a swell guy (Matt).
Soon, I promise.

Because this ended up as a really long post, which is really more of
archival interest and because of the new bloging program that I'm using,
I'm going to use an extended entry text cut thing. Anyway if you click
on the (more) link that should follow this paragraph (or go to the
permalink) then you'll be able to read the rest of this post, which
talks about computers and gear lust/purchasing plans, my housing
situation for next semester, and knitting updates.)

In a dorky kind of way here's what I'm thinking about technology at the
moment. Anna (my ibook, as in Anna Madrigal), needs more ram which I'll
probably order sooner rather than later which is totally ok, because
I've been procrastinating it too long, and Anna deserves it. Also, I'm
planning to get some external storage, because my fast growing Music
collection is stretching the ends of my hard drive, and there's a bunch
of stuff that I really don't need to carry around with me day in and day
out. Given my rooming situation next semester (which I'll get to in a
moment,) I'll probably buy myself a wireless access point as a Christmas
gift (ie have it shipped to home, rather than Beloit). After that, I
might get a wireless keyboard if I see a really good deal one, and I
think I'm going to bring my old monitor to Beloit next year (which
doesn't really relate, except I thought of that and I knew/know that
there's something else I wanted to talk about in this section, but that
wasn't it.) Oh, right. iPod, I've been using a borrowed iPod for the
past couple of months, and I really really like it, so I think I'm going
to have to have one at some point. Maybe that's what I ask people for
Christmas. Hmm. (that was my mother's idea, and to be truthful it‚Äôs a
wonderful gift idea, because it's something I'd totally never buy for
myself, but it's an amenity and I feel terribly guilty and non-practical
asking for that.) On a connected but dissimilar point, I think I'm going
to need to reclaim my speakers from my father at semester.

Anyway, that housing situation.

So I'm going to move next semester pending my acceptance (which I think
at this point is fairly certain) at the Women's Centre (official
spelling of both words is different, but no matter). It'll mean I have a
roommate, which I've totally made peace with given that said double
might be three times as big as my current room (a single). It'll be
cool. There was a meeting today, where the most senior house member, was
like "we were thinking of changing the name of the club to be more
inclusive, and we think that having guys in the house might add a useful
new dimension to the club," and we were like, "we agree with the second
part, but it's totally cool to keep the name as it is." My first
brilliant idea for a WC meeting will be titled. "Feminism is about
Change, the WC is about Feminism. Come to the WC to talk about change."
I had communication with a professor whose class I really want to take,
and he didn't tell me he'd let me in, and I really want to take that
class. *Eek* I really hope I get into the class. I'll know after
thanksgiving, maybe earlier.

I ran out of yarn on the sweater I've been knitting. Luckily the dye
lots are really too close for words (more so than usual,) and there's a
really good chance that I'll over dye it in the end anyway. It's really
awesome, and I'm so close to finishing. In the interim I'm knitting on
the endless shawl. There's another sweater that I'm going to start
knitting. I ribbed pullover, using some hemp wool. It's probably a
longer project, maybe something like... two or three weeks.

In addition to that, I have two sweaters worth of yarn in my stash. I
have a lot of tapestry yarn that I'm going to make into a very simple
(oversized) zippered cardigan/coat with a couple of cables. I had
planned to make a garter stitch coat with it, but I've decided that I
really hate garter stitch, enough to not want to do that project. The
other yarn is destined to be a garter stitch cabled pullover of my own
design. I started to do a swatch, but I didn't like it, so I'm going to
try again, a little closer to when I'm going to make it.

Sometime fairly soon, I'm going to buy wool to do an awesome color work
cardigan/jacket, which I'll do after I do the other two projects
mentioned above. There's also 19 pounds of yarn with my name on it,
which will probably turn into a sweater or 15. Some of it will go into
my weaving class (more in a moment) and some of it will turn into
sweaters. Then I'll get to do St. Moritz maybe.

Weaving class. I'm going to take a weaving class next semester, which I
think will be a lot of fun, in part because it's weaving, and in part
because there are going to be a bunch of other awesome people in the
class. I learned today that we have to buy some of our own yarn, but I
don't see this as a really big problem, because I already have a lot of
skills in getting cool yarn for not much, and because I have a lot of
yarn, including thousands of yards of cotton lace yarn that I'd really
like to use in some way that isn't lace knitting. Also because I have
stores and skills of yarn obtaining, I might be deal yarn and be able to
reinvest. Muwahahaha.

Ok, so that's the short and (mostly) long of it. I hope to be able to
check in more in the coming days/weeks. There are some developments in
the realm of WWOTB, which I'd like to document in an open forum, but I
think that needs more a serious and dedicated post, so I'll wait on that
for later in the week.

