==========
karma call
==========

.. post:: 2008-03-28
   :author: tychoish

It was my intention today to work on further invoking good karma to
collect upon myself to the end of summoning good news from graduate
school. Oh, by the way...

*Days on the Waitlist:* **17**

...anyway, so in this direction, I finally pulled the plug on TealArt.
Which was waiting to happen, and I think it's good that I just got it
done with and I'm on to doing things that I think are going to be really
productive in my life. Though its sad to let it go, tychoish is where
it's at for me, and to be cliched: taking irons off the fire is a good
thing right now.

Another part of list of "things I'm changing," is I'm going to re-title
this blog to be less journalish and more blogish, and hopefully begin to
start (continue?) to push my posts in that direction. If someone has a
good pithy blog title, I'd love to hear it. I have to throw away a bunch
of crap that I've collected, and I'm also still in search of some
symbolic rite, but I'm working in the right direction.

*In other news:*

I wrote an entire knitting pattern for this shawl today:

I need to find out who took that picture, though, because I don't have
that info on my records, it was someone who went to Meg Swansen's
Knitting Camp 1 last year, someone who might be reading the blog right
now. It's sort of important that I find out, because I don't have the
shawl any more, and I want to use the picture in the pattern.

Anyway, the deal with this pattern, and it's going to be an experiment
in pattern publication. I'm going to post, probably tomorrow, the
terms/description of the licensee that I'm including at the end of the
pattern tomorrow for your feedback. I'm looking for the proper middle
ground between "I'm going to be stingy and try and prevent people from
copying this file," (which seems to be futile anyway), and "I'm giving
it all away for free." I'm also concerned that if I cripple the
distribution system somehow to make it more "secure" (by only selling
print copies, or limiting downloads,) that I'll prevent my best method
for advertising.

So I'll get that copy to you tomorrow and you can tell me what you
think.

That's about all the news I have.

