===========
Keyboarding
===========

.. post:: 2008-01-29
   :author: tychoish

Good Morning Friends.

I'd like to be able to say that I got a lot of things done yesterday,
and while I think I had, on the whole, a really good day, I do think
that it was not nearly as productive as I might have liked. Alas. But
things need to get done, and they don't do themselves.

I did, yesterday, finally get a real keyboard for use at my desk. My
hands like this new set up a lot, its nice when the keys go down all the
way. It has lead to a number of quick realizations: - The arrow keys are
too far away. I finally understand the vim convention to use "h-j-k-l"
keys as directional keys in command mode. - I use command enter as a
personal command trigger, and it makes little sense on "real" keybaords.
- Always, but particularly now, If I'm going to learn and use vim I need
to find a good way to map the escape key to something closer. I was
think F3 or F4, mostly because my caps-lock key is already "control."
Sigh. I'm a dweeb. - Actually I think I rarely use the right-shift key,
I wonder if that could become escape? Key re-mapers, be in touch with
me.

I finished the first new scene for *Breakout* and did some more
structural work. I have a system established for the missing part, and
it's going better. My task for the moment is to work on editing and
going through what I've already written and try to integrate it into the
hypertext. While I feel uncomfortable writing short works that stand on
their own, I like writing the small bits. So progress here is good.

I think that at some point in the next couple of weeks, I'll begin
posting little bits, here and there, of what I'm working on for
*Breakout.* Just because I can.

I've been giving some thought to the development of my Internet
projects. While I really like drupal, and I **do** want to do something
new with TealArt, and I think that I've made some important progress,
it's going pretty slowly, and I'm starting to realize (finally) that
there's too much recreation of the wheel.

The other thing that I realized in the past few days is that, since I
started tychoish.com in June I've been averaging about 20,000 words a
month. I don't know, I think that's rather a lot of words. While I
really like writing these entries, and I think there's something that
I'm doing differently this time around, I think it wouldn't be the worst
thing in the world if I spent my 20k of blogging words a month writing
things that were less drivel-y. Still blogging about the same, but if I
blogged actual fiction or something...

So I'm actually leaning towards ditching the drupal project and cooking
something up using wordpress and the instance tychoish.com as the "home"
of my sites. I'll need to stew on that for a whilew, but I think it
might be able to resolve the conflict of these last three paragraphs
with one solution, but we'll see, of course.

Ok, I think I've blathered enough here. Have a great day, and I'll catch
you on the flip-side.

Onward and Upward!

