===============
Keyboard Revolt
===============

.. post:: 2008-06-09
   :author: tychoish

Later today, Steve Jobs is giving some sort of key note at Apple's
developer convention.

Just in time I say. There's a long story here.

About a week ago (you haven't heard this, because I've been very *nose
to the grindstone all week*), a number of keys started coming off the
keyboard. I deployed my usual "swap high traffic keys for low traffic
keys" routine, but then the tab key went on the fritz, and a day later
several keys (f, r, g, 4) gave up the ghost entirely.

External keyboards work, but I tend to be pretty mobile, and it turns
out that I really do take my computer with me just about everywhere. So
this keyboard problem was a bigger issue than it might seem.

If you've been reading tychoish for more than a few weeks, you've
probably realized that I'm pretty close to getting a new computer. The
old one is 3 years old, and I find myself butting up against its
limitations more than I'd really care to. So I think at this point it's
just a matter of time before I do the upgrade. I'm half waiting to see
if Apple puts out a new machine at WWDC, but I kind of doubt that they
will.

There's just not a lot of room for change in the laptops. I think
there'll be something exciting: it's been a while since Apple's done
something unexpected which is atypical, but I suspect it won't be with
the laptops. There are other reasons why I think the laptops will stay
as they are: the summer student promotion (which I'm *so* taking
advantage of) and the fact that it's been 3 month since the last rev,
and they typically rev every 6 months, and the fact that there aren't
any new technologies that make any amount of marketing sense to include
at this point. But that's not the point of unexpected, I guess.

In the mean time, I'm back to using a computer that was the computer I
took with me to college that my mother has been using for the past
couple of years. We finally upgraded it to *Tiger* and the funny thing
is that it's running great. A bit slower than I'm used to, (I think,
however, that's mostly ram) and it's not completely comfortable yet, but
it's ok. After a week of fighting with a sick computer it's nice to have
something that works.

And I've made another realization. This computer, is one of the 12 inch
ibooks. It's *tiny*, and probably about as powerful as computers like
the Asus EEE PC. And it has about 4 hours of battery life, which is kind
of amazing. Seriously, Apple could start selling these exact machines
today, and I doubt they could keep them in stock.

Anyway, I should be able to keep a pretty regular posting schedule up
but if if I miss, lets blame it on the technology, shall we?

Onward and Upward!

