=================
Knitting the Neck
=================

.. post:: 2007-04-10
   :author: tychoish

The neckline in a sweater is the location of one of my perpetual
anxieties about knitting. I suppose this could be resolved to knitting
objects that don't have necks, like socks, or mittens, but I'm not sure
that would be incredibly healthy, and besides, whats knitting without a
little challenge. The one nice thing about neck lines, is that there are
a handful of different approaches, and once you find a neck line that
you like, it's a fairly short order to transplant this neckline from one
garment to another. You'll probably still need to learn a few different
kinds of collars/necklines but then you're basically set. In this part
of our series, I'll cover three basic neck lines that are among my
favorites, and (in a special bonus part) a few of the hard lessons that
I've learned from knitting sweaters.

Collar Basics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We'll assume for a moment that these collars will be constructed in the
round around steeks, and thus descriptions of neck shaping will assume
that the back and both sides of the front (of the neck) will be shaped
at the same time. If you don't want use steeks, it should be easy to
translate these directions to "flat knitting.

The basic principal of neck opening design is that, as you near the
shoulders of your sweater, you put a percentage of stitches in the
middle of the front of the sweater on hold and then knit around
decreasing on either side of the opening at some speed to shape the neck
opening. The length of the shaping, the number of stitches placed on
hold, and rate of decreases control the shape of the neck line. Here are
some basics:

**V-Neck** This one's simple. If the front of your sweater has an odd
number, put the middle stitch on a thread, and cast on for the steek
(conversely if the number of stitches is even, just cast on steek at the
middle of the front.) Decrease at a regular rate until the end of the
shoulders. Generally neck openings represent a touch more than one third
of the total diameter of the body, and in a V-Neck the decreases need to
be calculated such that the proper number of stitches can be decreased
on each side of the steek/neck or opening at a regular interval over in
the length of the neck opening.

I suspect that a short, but standard v-neck is likely to take *about*
2/5ths (call it 4 inches for most adults) of the length of the yoke
section (that is, the top of the sweater that the sleeves attach to).
But V-necks can be much deeper as well. There's a lot of versatility in
this.

**Crew Neck** What I think of as a crew neck, is just a basic "T-shirt"
or "rounded" neck opening. I think I picked up my version by backwards
engineering and modifying a pattern I knit from a rather famous Scottish
designer. I use this or derivations on this formula for almost all of my
sweaters these days:

Set aside (on a holder) the middle 1/6th of the total number of stitches
on the front of the sweater 3 inches from the shoulders (or 2/3s of the
way to the end of the sweater). Decrease one stitch on either side of
the steek/opening every round for an inch and a half. Then, decrease one
stitch on either side of the opening/steek every *other* round for the
remaining inch and a half. All things being equal, you should, have
decrased away a few more than 1/3rd of the stitches between the stitches
on the holder and the stitch that you decreased. You may have to slow
the decreases a few rounds earlier, or decrease quickly for an extra row
or two, depending on gauge, but this generally works.

**"Sport" Neck** My favorite neck, by far, is what I call a sport neck.
This isn't *exactly* traditional, but I find it flattering, and it's not
entirely inconstant with some traditions. This neck is just like a crew
neck, except the front of the yoke is slit open and plackets are knitted
on each side of the opening. The process is quite simple, though there
are variations that you can explore.

My initial exploration involved setting aside the 1/6th 3.5-4 inches
earlier than I would have other wise, and then knitting around plainly
until the crew neck would have usually started, and then shaping the
crew neck as if all was "normal." When I went to knit the neck, I would
knit plackets perpendicular to the "straight side of the neck opening,
and then knitted the collar with rounded corners on either side of the
opening.

More recently, I've taken to only setting aside a few stitches at the
base of the neck, and the setting aside the "normal number of crew neck
stitches at the normal time. In this case, I knit the collar normally,
and knit a short hem along the sides of the "open neck," creating more
square corners.

Either option works fine, and is quite fetching. There are of course
other possibilities and variations on this style of neck.

**The Back of the Neck** Until this point I've been mum as to what
happens on the back of the neck. It's perfectly acceptable to do
absolutely nothing. and simply set aside a number equivalent to the
number of stitches you decreased/set aside at the front in the middle of
the back when you bind off (so that the shoulders line up.) I've more
recently taken to doing some back of the neck shaping, this is more
simple than it sounds:

About an inch and a half away from the shoulders, set aside the number
of stitches that you've decreased from the front at this point (this is
why I like to work in the round) on a thread at the back of the neck.
For the remaining portion of the sweater, decrease on either side of the
back neck steek/opening at the same rate that you are decreasing from
the front. This works with every kind of neck that I can think of, and
is one of those things that gives a sweater an extra little edge.

**But wait there's more** I'm sure you still want to hear about cool
neck shaping tricks, knitting collars on these neck openings and more. I
think that I've given you all enough to chew on for a while. I'll be
back in a few days for a bonus episode in this series to cover more
collar related issues.

Until then, be warm and I'll see you all soon.

Cheers, tycho

