========================
Knitting and Programming
========================

.. post:: 2015-02-24
   :author: tychoish
   :location: Brooklyn, NY
              
For 2013 and some of 2012 and 2014, I mostly stopped knitting and
spent the time teaching myself how to *really* make software. It
wasn't exactly that intentional in the moment, but time is finite and
both knitting and coding require similar kinds of attention and
thought. In retrospect this is what happened. 

I've started knitting again, not as much or in the same ways that I
used to, but there's a bit more space in my brain for additional
projects. I've thought often about writing about similarities between
knitting and programming.

.. raw:: html

   <blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-version="4" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAAGFBMVEUiIiI9PT0eHh4gIB4hIBkcHBwcHBwcHBydr+JQAAAACHRSTlMABA4YHyQsM5jtaMwAAADfSURBVDjL7ZVBEgMhCAQBAf//42xcNbpAqakcM0ftUmFAAIBE81IqBJdS3lS6zs3bIpB9WED3YYXFPmHRfT8sgyrCP1x8uEUxLMzNWElFOYCV6mHWWwMzdPEKHlhLw7NWJqkHc4uIZphavDzA2JPzUDsBZziNae2S6owH8xPmX8G7zzgKEOPUoYHvGz1TBCxMkd3kwNVbU0gKHkx+iZILf77IofhrY1nYFnB/lQPb79drWOyJVa/DAvg9B/rLB4cC+Nqgdz/TvBbBnr6GBReqn/nRmDgaQEej7WhonozjF+Y2I/fZou/qAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div> <p style=" margin:8px 0 0 0; padding:0 4px;"> <a href="https://instagram.com/p/zZ-iK1L-sT/" style=" color:#000; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none; word-wrap:break-word;" target="_top">A sweater ontology</a></p> <p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;">A photo posted by Sam Kleinman (@tychoish) on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2015-02-22T13:55:34+00:00">Feb 22, 2015 at 5:55am PST</time></p></div></blockquote>
   <script async defer src="//platform.instagram.com/en_US/embeds.js"></script>'

The two activities have much in common. Code and knitting are both
highly structured activities, with a reasonably finite syntax of
possible component operations. Most programming languages have a few
dozen keywords, fundamental types, and built in operations that give
rise to all programs (more or less,) and knitting similarly provides a
small number of operations (knit, purl, increase, decrease, slip) that
you can combine and alter to produce pretty much any kind of fabric. 

Knitting patterns are procedural (like programs, generally) and have a
standard syntax that shares a number of common elements with
contemporary programming languages, including loops, conditionals,
`map <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Map_%28higher-order_function%29>`_ 
(functional) operations, as well as some non-trivial concurrency. 

While each knitting stitch depends on the stitches that happen before
and after it, they are all reasonably atomic within the knitted
object. At the same time, many knitting projects have lots other
objects that happen at the same time, along different dimensions:
shaping, stitch patterns, short rows, sleeves/gloves as well as
parallel objects like socks. Knitters routinely track multiple things
happening at the same time, with some success: a task that many
programmers struggle with.

The connection between knitting and programming isn't terribly
surprising or novel: indeed there's a long history between the
development of textile production and technology more broadly, but
hand knitting is sort of a technological oddity, so the connections
don't have the same history that you'd have in weaving (say.) 

-----

I've struggled to write this post for a while and have always
had a hard time figuring out what the conclusion is or should be. I
think I've felt like there should be some potential for synthesis,
some way to take the things I've learned about software and use that
to write programs to support knitting or design work, or vice
versa. Increasingly, I think that this is the *anti-conclusion*.

Sure you can represent knitting patterns using formal languages (such
as programming languages,) and it wouldn't be *that* hard to write
software that converted a pattern, or validated the math, but the math
is really the easy part of knitting.

The hard part about knitting things is not figuring out how many
stitches you need to knit an object that's the right size, but rather
figuring out what the right size is. It's easy to know how many
stitches you need, and hard to decide how big or small a thing should
be. It's also true that actually knitting things takes the largest
amount of time; figuring out the math and making the design decisions
are comparatively quick for most projects. 

Computers wouldn't be able to tell how long we should knit the cuffs
of our socks or the sleeves of our sweaters, no matter how much code
we write.

In any case, I'll be over here, knitting away at my sweater.
