==================
Knitting Reduction
==================

.. post:: 2007-09-13
   :author: tychoish

I must confess something: I haven't been knitting as much lately as I
generally do. This may surprise some of you, but I have good reasons,
and I think that I'm starting to get back into things. For starters it's
been really rather warm around here for a while, and I haven't really
wanted to get under a warm sweater, and I've failed at a lot of attempts
to start new and projects. Also--and this is my own damn fault--but I
have failed in my usual good practice of knitting sleeves efficiently:
I'm something like 5 sleeves short of three new sweaters.

But the weather has, I think officially broken, and I've figured out
how/what to do for my next sweater projects. I've also made some peace
with my sleeve issue.

Part of the sleeve problem is that I knit two plain (all stocking
stitch) sweaters in quick succession, in part because I wanted to have
an easy "demo" sweater to work on at camp, and in part because I was
eating through some yarn that had been in the stash too long. End
result: four plain (boring) sleeves. I knit one of these sleeves without
much fuss, but most of my plain knitting this summer has been focused on
sock knitting, and they're heavy sweaters, so I don't want them on my
lap, and I'm not keen on the idea of dragging them along in my bag.

My main project this summer as been a color work sweater. I was somewhat
late starting the sleeves because I was short the requisite needle, but
after a false start I was off. I realized, however, that I had decreased
way way way too much. Those that know me will be surprised to find that
I actually ripped back several inches to see if I could fix the problem.
So I started knitting this time, with a slower rate of decreases (that
eventually stopped) and now while the sleeve will now fit a human
wearer, it still looks a little funny. Crap. Going to have to rip that
one back, but I don't have the stomach for it.

The other impediment to my knitting progress this summer, was that I
started a sweater that, as it turns out, was planned for a gauge that
had two **more** stitches per inch than reality. The sweater would have
been four inches smaller than I need. So, taking this as a gauge swatch,
I'm going to cast on *397* stitches, provisionally, for a sweater,
inspired by one of Joyce Williams' designs in `Lativan
Dreams <http://www.amazon.com/LATVIAN-DREAMS-Knitting-Weaving-Charts/dp/0942018192>`__.
I'm not really following Joyce's expert directions, except in the most
generous of senses, but I don't think she'd expect me to.

I also, may or may not have gotten two more pounds of the nicest gray
yarn you've ever seen, and I'm aching to use it, and if nothing else
that will inspire someone to knit through the some of the other things
in the queue.

Rather than knit a lot these last few months, I've done some good
computer work and, at least as of today, I'm very close to the half way
mark of my novella, and I continue to be excited about this project, so
it's good to be working on it. I don't have a record of the exact start
date, but I think I started around August 11th, and if I hit the half
way on Saturday or Sunday, that means that I'll finish before
`NaNoWriMo <http://www.nanowrimo.org/>`__, which I think I'm going to
write a short story for this year.

Anyway. That's enough rambling for one day.

Be Well!

