=========================
Knitting In The Tradition
=========================

.. post:: 2007-03-20
   :author: tychoish

I've run across the term "living tradition" a number of times as a
`Morris Dancer <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morris_dance>`__, and I'm
not sure if the term has any great salience out side of that community,
but I think it should. What I should say about Morris dancing, is that
it's very old, and if it has anything it has history. Morris also, is
incredibly silly, which presents it's practitioners with a quandary:
It's hard to be silly if you do everything "by the book." When Morris
dancers, or any other folk dance/music enthusiast says "it's a living
tradition," it's with great respect for the history of the *folk*, and a
knowledge that traditions change and develop with every passing moment
and every generation. I have a
`Weaver's <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Weavers>`__ where `Lee
Hayes <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Hays>`__ calls this the "folk
process." In the same moment, every invocation of a "living tradition"
or the "folk process, is most frequently uttered right before
aforementioned enthusiast/artist creates an utterly modern fabrication
of absurd proportions. I could recount many such examples of this
happening in song and dance, but I'll spare you for I fear that these
would only be funny for me, and besides this is an essay about knitting.

As I have conceptualized it, the *knitting tradition* reflects not only
the more conventional thoughts about styles, primarily shapes but
patterns as well. Knitting in traditional ways, but also invokes a sense
*play* with in these traditional frameworks. For me, it is the sense of
freedom that these frameworks produce that is the truly exciting part of
knitting in this way, and I hope to begin an exploration of both the
frameworks and the sense of *play* this week.

When I think of traditional knitting, my first thoughts are of the
textured knitting traditions of England and Ireland, the Shetland "Fair
Isle" style of knitting, and of course the Mitten and sweater knitting
that typifies for many Nordic and Scandinavian knitting. These are all
certainly examples of traditional knitting, and I think there is a lot
to be said for looking at these forms as guidelines for creating new
designs. It's worth noting that our notion of traditional knitting is
affected by the fact that the knitting traditions are the product of
their collection at a very specific moment in history, but I think it's
quite reasonable to assume that knitters in the late 20th century were
**not** the first to improvise in their knitting. Thus, it seems more
proper to assume that the Fair Isle Jumper, the Aran sweater, and all
their traditional counterparts are really as much a product of the late
19th and early 20th century, as they are of the "knitting tradition." I
remember reading something once that located the origins "Aran" Sweater
to Irish immigrants in New York during the 1920s, even. Does this make
Aran sweaters *less* traditional than, say a style of knitting that is
far older. No. Aran sweaters deploy an inventive combination of features
that are significantly older. There is a great deal of power in the
"traditions" and an amazing quantity of possibilities.

I'm relatively sure that there isn't a great deal of historical
precedent for the kinds of designs I'm drawn to creating, but at the
same time, nearly all the components are traditional: the shape, the
patterns, the technique. And in any case the elements that aren't
strictly traditional are often inspired or reminiscent of elements that
are traditional. All this by way of saying that, there's lots of room
for freedom within the tradition, and that's part of the reason that I'm
so drawn to these ways of knitting.

Unfortunately, the sense of *play* in traditional knitting is pretty
hard to teach in any coordinated way, but fortunately, people seem to
pick it rather quickly upon being exposed to traditional knitting styles
and "patterns." These vestiges of tradition, are indeed what I think
most people's first association with a knitting tradition because they
are more concrete, and immediately visible. These basic garment shapes
are not always the most flattering or taylored, but they are versatile,
and I've found that with a little bit of finesse it's quite easy to
adapt these styles to most body types. Traditional knitting often still
looks a little "folky" but, that is sort of the point. Beyond this, I've
had some trouble attempting to articulate the more concrete aspects of
traditional knitting, in part because there have been a number of really
important books on the subject. I will recommend the books by `Beth
Brown-Reinsel <http://www.amazon.com/Knitting-Ganseys-Beth-Brown-Reinsel/dp/0934026858>`__
and `Pricillia
Gibson-Roberts <http://www.amazon.com/Knitting-Old-Way-Techniques-Sweaters/dp/0966828968/ref=pd_sim_b_3/104-9746410-9040738>`__
as they are both good starting places for exploring traditional
(particularly sweater) knitting. My general impression of explorations
of traditional knit, is that they present both a shape for a garment,
and a number of patterns that can be combined in the knitting of the
garment. This division seems like a useful one, particularly for the
instruction of traditional knitting, because it can allow students the
ability to construct their own projects that correspond to their skill
level.

Traditional knitting presents us as knitters with scores of possibility,
that I find hard to explore properly without getting more in to the
specifics of particular designs and forms. At the same time, the mindset
of the traditional knitter seems to come easily to many knitters, even
though it's harder to teach. Having said all this, the reason I've
remained so inthralled by traditional knitting is not just because of
the great sense of design possibility in these styles, but also because
I find that the approach and forms (shapes, patterns) of this kind of
knitting *just work*, for both my aesthetic and my temperament as a
knitter. I hope to explore not just these shapes, and approaches to
knitting, but how to convey the sense of "tradition" to the uninitiated
knitters. In that sense, both the teaching that I seem to be engaged in
and this series itself are part of this exploration.

Knit on in good health and good sprits, and I'll be back in a bit with
something hopefully at bit more concrete.

