============================
Knitting in Three Dimensions
============================

.. post:: 2011-11-23
   :author: tychoish

It's relatively straight forward to think about knitting in terms of
creating two dimensional shapes. Most of us start by knitting
something "easy" [#scarf-knitting]_ like a scarf. From there it's easy
enough to teach knitters to create a never ending variety of
polygons. This, however, misses what I think of as the really cool
part of knitting. I think the way to understand how knitting works, to
be able to knit things that more closely resemble what you want, and
to *have the most fun knitting* is to always think about knitting as
three dimensional.

This isn't an elaborate argument in favor of circular knitting: that
argument has been fairly well made and I'll recount my favorite points
on request, but circular knitting is a great technique
and knitting in three dimensions is an entire practice.

.. [#scarf-knitting] Scarf knitting seems so easy and mechanically it is:
   knit the same number of stitches row after row after row. But there
   are issues. First, garter stitch to the uninitiated doesn't look like
   "knitting," and with a high rows per inch ratio these scarves take
   forever to knit. Such projects are always discouraging.

Knitting Gestalts / Knitting Shapes
-----------------------------------

I've written about this before but one of the best parts about sweater
knitting is thinking about how the sweater--the whole object--comes
together into a garment. Rather than knitting a collection of flat
pieces that can be sewn into a garment (tailoring) knitting lets you
build and shape garments with various seamless and nearly-seamless
methods.

I sometimes describe this kind of knitting as "architectural," but the
key (for me) is thinking about the entire object as a whole. There's
something that's nearly magical that happens when you can take a few
rows curled up on a circular needle and see in your mind fits into the
object that you're knitting. The process of using knitting stitches,
increases and decreases to get from the former to the later is
relatively trivial if have can think about the entire object (a
"knitting gestalt") in three dimensions in your mind.

Knitting Mechanics
------------------

If "knitting gestalts" provide a top-down perspective on knitting, I
think there's a "bottom up" three dimensional perspective that is
important when thinking about how stitches fit together. While a big
part of knitting has to do wit the shapes and forms, the textures,
drape and "hand" of the fabric all have a lot to do with the final
evaluation of the object. To understand drape and texture, it's
important to consider the properties of individual knitting stitches
and the effects of yarn weight/texture, needle size, and personality
of the knitter. The second part (yarn type, needle size, knitting
style) is pretty common, the first (knitting stitch) is less so.

I have a favorite example of this kind of thinking. I'm not sure where
I learned this but it's suck with me:

Knitted fabric typically curls. This happens because the "purl side"
of the knitted stitch has a greater surface area than the "knit side,"
which causes unaltered stocking stitch to roll up. At the same time,
the "knit" side of the stitch is a little bit wider than the "purl"
side of the stitch, so the edges will curl in. The way to counteract
this, is to mix knit-and-purl stitches on the same row to balance the
surface areas out and thus counteract the effects. Think about ribbing
and seed stitch... Think about knit and purl patterns and how they
change the tendency of the fabric to roll. Think about the path of the
yarn through a knitting stitch.

See? Isn't is cool?

In Conclusion
-------------

Whatever kind of knitting you want to do is fine with me: I don't care
to tell anyone that the way they knit is *wrong*. At the same time, I
don't think there's any sense in being afraid of your knitting:
knitting is great fun and I think once you know the basics most
knitters can knit just about everything. So my goal in this post, and
in all of my :ref:`tag-knitting` posts, is to share my own process and
encourage you (all) to branch out in your own work.

Have fun!

Onward and Upward!
