==============
Knits For Sale
==============

.. post:: 2008-01-24
   :author: tychoish

Ok, I don't really have knitting for sale--at the moment--but I wanted
to throw a question out to the knitters out there. I also sold a sweater
this month, and wanted to rehash this experience for the rest of you out
there.

So lets start with the sweater that I sold. This was a sweater that I
knit pretty fast, out of really great yarn (Henry's Attic Prime Alpaca
Sport weight), in my usual two color style. It never fit, and was
frankly way too warm for anything that I'd wear with regularity. It was
a really well done sweater but I was never going to wear it. And it was
too small for other male bodied people, and many women as well.

In fact, here's a picture of it on a dress form at the yarn store:

.. figure:: http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2187/2149410325_a5f8d25308.jpg?v=0
:alt: sweater

sweater
And it fit a friend, and she wanted it and was willing to pay me for it.
And you know, given the fact that I was never going to use it... I sold
it to her. For a honest sum, but still significantly less than what I
think would be a fair price.

And you know it felt pretty good. Everyone always says that you can
never get enough for knitted goods. And that's true: not counting yarn,
I figure most small sweaters would cost at least 500 dollars at minimum
wage. Which would be hard to get in any market that I have a connection
to. Having said that, if you're producing at a comfortable speed, and
knitting time also means TV time or Podcast time (as it does with me);
then, getting a lower price isn't that good.

I often tell people in the yarn store that yarn purchases should be
thought of as part of the entertainment budget not clothing/garb budget:
this is because the economies of hand knitting don't work out: If you're
cold: buy polar fleece and make a cup of tea. If you want something fun
to do while you're drinking your tea, buy yarn. This might be part of
the reason that I don't often give away my knitted things, because it's
not really about the thing for me. But never mind this, I think that
getting paid a couple bucks an hour to have fun isn't the worst thing in
the world.

Nevertheless, I remain very hesitant to sell knitting. I like making
sweaters, and while I think you could probably break even pretty easily
on hand knit socks, it's much harder to break even on the fine gauge
stuff that I make (let's also note, that my own wardrobe needs a few
more sweaters knit at fine gauge, on top of what I'm working on/have
planned for the current moment.) And of course, I don't want to make
something that I'm interested in into "work." So I'm very keen to see
what you all have to say on this....

And whats more, I'm all sorts willing to sell hand spun yarn. It's part
of my desire to knit sweaters, but I really do like knitting with very
machined yarns, and while spinning is great fun, I see it as an end to
itself, so I never really think bout knitting for my own projects,
though it might be fun to experiment with this. Also because knitters
and weavers are likely to be the people buying your hand spun, it's
easier to get closer to a fair price. Maybe?

Or am I full of hot air and I should look for a real job, and just knit
for fun

Cheers, tycho

