=========================
knitting camp, travel day
=========================

.. post:: 2007-07-05
   :author: tychoish

I have arrived in Wisconsin, again. I think I made pretty reasonable
time, there was more traffic than you'd think for a thursday, but who
knows. Day after the 4th maybe?

Anyway, I listened to a lot of `The Voice of Free Planet
X <http://planetx.libsyn.com/>`__ during the drive (in addition to other
stuff) and I have to say that I'm in absolute love with the podcast. I
only have one more episode to listen to because I think I didn't
download 25-30ish of the episodes. Addiction. It's great you should
listen to. The holiday specials were particularly good. Check it out.
I'm in that "fuzzy headed" space because of the drive, where you're not
quite tired and not quite awake... I think I'd make a great truck driver
if this academia thing craps out on me.

I also listened to Steven Eley's `EscapePod <http://escapepod.org/>`__
rendition of Issac Asimov's "Nightfall" short story. I hadn't heard/read
the story as such, (I think) but it was familiar, and it reminded me why
I like SF. Great stuff, I mean not at all like what I'd write, but
masterfully done and just great writing.

The knitting camaraderie was pretty darn swell. A friend said "I think
I've found my peoples" tonight, and that's probably right. It was good
times. Though I put a lot of time trying to get my knitting to be at the
right point for the weekend, I'm starting to feel like I don't quite
have the projects in the right place. I also am starting to think that I
packed my knitting very oddly. I didn't bring the yarn for the stranded
socks (guess I can buy some heh,) but I brought more yarn for the
project that I'm currently working on that I probably won't need for
*months*. Sigh. I also forgot to pack Mr/Sir Henry, and a cardigan that
I think might have made for good show and tell. I also realized that I
brought a trunk of sweaters for show and tell (and even a couple of
shawls) because I had the room and I have no clue what I want to show
off.

Other news. I thought about writing a lot during the drive. I wish I
were better/more interested in writing short fiction.

Ok, I'm out for the day, I think. posts will come later in the day
tomorrow when I have some time to reflect. Until then, keep the internet
safe.

cheers!

