======================
Knitting for Your Mood
======================

.. post:: 2004-11-14
   :author: tychoish

I think its fair to say that I've been in a knitting funk of late. I've
made a few hats, which have been nice to, but not terribly fulfilling,
given that I have all the hats I could possibly want, and while I do
plan to give a few away, I need a "finished hat" box (like my mom's sock
box) where you let finished projects sit for a while, so you can let go
and give them away. This is ironic, given that one of the things I want
to make (that I don't currently have yarn for) is a sweater for someone
else, but that's different, because you're making it specifically for
someone else, in a style/fiber that you don't particularly like (or feel
suited to you).

No matter, so I made a few hats, started a 52 stitch garter stitch
rectangle (why oh why?), knitted some more on the plain shawl that will
never end, and just yesterday I started another sweater. It's going to
be a wool drop-shoulder pull over, with a cut neck a high collar. As is
usual I'm debating how exactly to execute the neck. Steek for sure,
clasps (rather than a zipper), and I think I'm going to put 1 inch of
ribbing (1x1; to match the other edges) on either side of the cut steek.
The other option is to put like 2 garter ridges (much narrower) on
either side, which is about half as wide, and could be adapted to
accommodate a zipper if I changed my mind. The one problem is that,
without a zipper, the garter ridges probably wouldn't counteract the
inherent curl of the steek, and would therefore look crappy.

The wool I'm using is a grab bag of worsted weight wool, gathered from
various sources. The bottom is this black yarn. From the vintage when
Red Heart still made 100% virgin wool, obtained at a rummage sale, and
from the same vintage, some more vintage yarn: Sears brand medium-light
grey. Finally, I have some left over sheep colored fisherman's wool
(Lion Brand) this stuff is still available so if I run out and need to
augment my supply, it'd be eight bucks at just about any craft store. I
think it's going to get a trip through my blue dye pot. I have a lot of
stuff that's going to get died blue: two hats, a shawl, this sweater,
plus the never-ending shawl.

After this sweater, I have yarn enough for two more sweaters: an aran
and plain (I think) pullover of some fun design, and countless shawls.
I'm sort of turned off of shawls for a while. I think I thought that I
could knit one shawl for every sweater I made, but I think I need to
institute a 2 for 1 policy, other wise, the shawls just wont work out.

I have two knitting lusts at the moment. The first is to knit the Rams
Horn cardigan from *Meg Swanson's Knitting*. I might get some sort of
plain worsted wool, but I think I should just come to terms with the
fact that it's going to be done in Icelandic Wool. It's not *that*
expensive, and I think my knitting deserves the right kind of yarn. This
is an old crush, but I've done some color stranding work, just for
grins, and I'm really pleased with it (and my abilities) so I have a
renewed interest.

The second crush is on This Sweater. I'd want to do it with the cut
neck, probably in the blue (second link) colorway. Melt. On the up side
their so generously sized, that I could make the extra small and still
have like eight inches of ease. The kits are ungodly expensive. There's
no other way to put it. Mind you, if you buy a Dale sweater from their
US distributor, it'll cost 3 times the cost of a kit. I'm going to see
how long this crush lasts, and I don't think it'll take very much to
keep me from buying the kit (because of the price), but at some point
I'll probably break down and get it as a reward for something. Lets say,
right here, if I live through next semester and more or less run out of
yarn, and have some sort of summer income, and have the money, I'll do
it.

Ok, so there's your knitting update for the week. I'll catch you all
soon. I'll keep you posted on the developments of my sweater as they
have a habit of progressing pretty fast.

