==========================
Knitting Knitting Knitting
==========================

.. post:: 2005-11-13
   :author: tychoish

I feel bad about not updating the Knitting portion of TealArt. I feel
lame. I think it's because I haven't been knitting much. I have a few
projects in progress this semester, but most of my knitting work has
been finishing projects I started at the end of the summer. I made hat
over fall break and another last week, and I started a sweater over fall
break, which I'm making measured progress on, but I haven't been
producing anywhere near the level that I've produced at in the past. I
also don't have the same sort of compulsion to "get things done" that
I've had in recent memory. On the one hand this is good, because
compulsive knitting isn't the most useful expenditure of time or psychic
energy, on the second hand I haven't really taken up another activity
(like, writing, web-design, reading, photography, exersize, television)
to replace knitting. I do have school work which does take out some of
the knitting, but I think that I'm going to blame this mostly on my
involvement in student government, which I'm working on checking out of
(I lost a bid to be vice president, I'm still chair of a fairly
influential committee so there's a lot less that I have to do.) *note to
self, rectify this situation.*

Next semester, I'm going to knit two sweaters, for an art special
project, which I think will be really fun. This is going to surprise all
of you I'm sure, but I have two concerns: the first is that I'll have a
problem getting them done, but when I do the math, it should work out
just fine, as long as I commit to it, and am able to get a lot done
during break(s), the second, is that I'm going to have to design the
sweaters myself. These should both be surprising to you. I'm worried by
the first option, because we're talking about making a sweater that is,
at least 300 stitches around, which is a huge amount, and the needles
will be small, so it will be slow going, secondly, at least one of the
designs, will have horizontal patterns, which are harder to memorize,
because they don't repeat in the same way. It's just something to think
about...

Oh well. Cheers, Sam

