======================
knitting camp, day two
======================

.. post:: 2007-07-07
   :author: tychoish

I'm trying to type quietly so that I don't wake
`TrickyTricot <http://trickytricot.typepad.com/>`__. Knitting camp is
awesome. Joyce Williams and I were the last ones out, after agreeing to
disagree about the various merits of different methods of shaping the
shoulders and sleeves of drop-shouldered sweaters. It ended with us
wearing each-others sweaters flailing about grabbing at the fabric of
the shoulders in exasperation. Hilarious my friends, hilarious.

I figured out the trick to Armenian knitting, which is this cool way to
get large blocks of color in stranded knitting without having to do
creepy weird stuff. I think I've always known it, but, I share a brain
cell with Meg and Joyce, because there's so much in our approach that's
similar. Joyce, for instance, shares my aversion to turning her work, to
the point that she will purl-back-backwords to get garter stitch. I'm
not that hardcore, but I will avoid projects if it involves turning.
Tringular shawls, for example.

I sat next to Meg, Meg Swansen (!), during show and tell, and it was
nifty to see what we responded to, and how frequently it was similar. It
was just sort of nifty.

Michael, said this morning something to the effect of "you seem like you
know a lot of people," which is interesting, because I've met two of
them before, but other than that nada. I guess I mingle well, or
something. It's interesting/nice to get outside validation of your
apparent social skills/network, particularly at points where you feel
like your social network/skills in the broader scope might be shrinking.

Also, I brought a lace shawl to camp that I knit a few years ago in 100%
tencel, that had developed a nasty snag. Another camper and I spent some
time on the ground pinning it out again to get the snag under control.
The camp room still has a lace carpet.

IN other news, my camp knitting, which is a plain sweater, is coming
along nicely. I figure that I should be able to get done with it by
lunch time (g-d willing) and then I can get back to knitting color work.
Speaking of which, a woman was knitting this amazing color-work sweater
in this amazing yarn, that apparently, isn't really available on the
internet, but is SUPER amazing and incredibly cheap. Like... Incredibly
cheap. And at least theoretically compatible with jumper weight
shetland. She brought down the color card and 6 of us took the number. I
fully intend to call during break tomorrow and order a sweaters worth.

I also heard about--or more properly that it sunk in--that the reduction
in J&S Shetland colors (and concurrent price hike). This means, that
really there's not a lot of reason to bother to use their shetland, when
HD is such high quality and affordable. I'm a college student after all.
In terms of swag, with the exception of the aforementioned yarn, there
are a couple of great books that I think I'm going to knit and I'm going
to get some sock yarn to make stranded socks.

This will entertain my parents/mother as much as anyone, but I met
someone today who is friends/knows morris dancing friends from the Twin
Cities.

Other than that... OMG people are reading my blog, omg, steven eley
commented on my blog, squee, and um, I got some encouragement to work on
knitting designs. I've been feeling rather uninspired of late, so that
was good. I just need to figure out a way to have time to both knit, and
be a science fiction writer.

Sorry for the long rambling post.... but I think I need to write
something for cast on podcast about going to camps: morris camp,
knitting camp, and the idea/possibility of going to clarion or
something.

ok, over and out folks, I need to figure out a way to pass out, I'm
going to need to be awake again in almost no time.

Cheers, tycho

