========================
Lamenting Project Xanadu
========================

.. post:: 2009-04-30
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: technology, cyborg

I've been reading `this is stevenf.com <http://www.stevnf.com>`__
recently, and I have to say that it's among my favorite current blogs
(by people I don't know). Geeky, but it doesn't revolve around code
snippets, simple, and minimal but in all of the right ways. And a bunch
of fun. Anyway he posted `an article a while ago that got me thinking
called, "it's my xanadu," go ahead read it and then come
back <http://stevenf.tumblr.com/post/90491161/its-my-xanadu>`__.

That's a great idea isn't it? I've been thinking a lot about data
management and the way we represent, store, access, and use knowledge on
the computer, so stuff like this gets me more excited than it really
should, all things being equal. `My good friend Joseph Spiros is even
working on a program would implement something very much like Xanadu and
the system that sevenf
described <http://josephspiros.com/2009/02/05/prelude-to-haven>`__.

First order of business should probably be to explain what Project
Xanadu is for those of you who don't know.

Xanadu was the first "hypertext system" designed that recognized that
text in digital formats was a different experience and proposition than
analog text. Proposed by Theodor Holm Nelson in the 1970s (with
floundering development in the 1980s), Xanadu to be something *amazing*.
It had features that contemporary hypertext systems sill lack. I think
everyone has their own list of "things from xanadu that I want now," but
for me the big sells were:

- Links went both ways: If you clicked on a link, you could reverse
  directions and see what documents and pages had links to the current
  page. This means that links *couldn't* break, or point to the wrong
  page, among other things

- Dynamic transclusions. Beyond simply being able to quote text
  statically, Xanadu would have been able to include a piece of text
  from another page that dynamically represent the most current
  revision of the included page. For example, I include paragraph 13 on
  page A (A.13) somewhere on page B; later you change A.13 to fix a
  typo, and the change is reflected in page B. I think links could also
  reference specific versions of a page/paragraph (but then users could
  from page B, access new and older dimensions of A.13).

- Micropayments. The system would have had (built in) a system for
  compensating "content creators/originators" via a system to collect
  very small amounts of money from lots of people.

  Needless to say, it didn't work out. It turns out that these features
  are really hard to implement in an efficient way--or at least they were
  in the eighties--because of computing requirements, and the very
  monolithic nature of the system. Instead we have a hypertext system
  that:

- Is built around a (real or virtual) system of files, rather than
  documents.

- Has no unified structural system.

- Must rely on distributed organizational systems (tagging, search
  engine indexes.)

- Is not version-aware, and it's pages are not self-correcting.

- Relies on out-modded business models.

To be fair, much of the conceptual work on the system was done before
the Internet was *anything like it is today,* and indeed many of these
features we can *more or less* hack into the web as we know it now:
wiki's have "backlinks," and google's ``link:`` search is in effect much
like Xanadu-Links, using dynamic generation we can (mostly) get
transclusions on one site (sort of), and paypal allows for micropayments
after a fashion.

But it's not *baked in to the server*, like it would have been in
Xanadu, this is both the brilliance and the downfall of Xanadu. By
"baking" features into the Xanadu server, hypertext would have been more
structured, easier to navigate, easier to collaborate, share and
concatenate different texts, and within a structure easier to write.

And yet, in a lot of cases, I (and clearly others) think that Xanadu is
worth considering, adopting: indeed, I think we could probably do some
fairly solid predictions of the future of hypertext and content on the
internet let alone information management in general, based on what was
in Xanadu.

That's about all I have, but for those of you who are familiar with
Xanadu I'd love to hear what you "miss most" about Xanadu, if you're
game.
