====================================
land, institutions, and organization
====================================

.. post:: 2009-05-21
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: politics, economics

As I mentioned in my `link collection
post <http://tychoish.com/posts/link-collection/>`__, my thinking
about co-operative economics has taken a brief foray into the area of
leadership and governance, both on the small scale (eg "How do we
organize our project, to acomplish our goals") and on the larger scale
(eg. "How do provide institutional support for the governance of our
civilization"). Both are important and relevant questions, but it's all
complicated of course. Also, we should probably start of with a brief
interlude of what an individuals labor/work activity might look like in
a post-corporate economy, and then I'll move into two interludes about
leadership and government. Seat-belts fastened?

Post-Corporatism and Labor
--------------------------

We're seeing some post-corporatism in the forum of an explosion of
freelance and independent consultancies of various stripes and colors.
Some key observations:

- Many if not most people working in this don't work full time for one
  employer, splitting their time and energies between a number of
  projects.

- Freelance work allows people to develop flexible careers where growth
  isn't dependent on moving into management careers.

- Traditional "benefits" of employment (eg. health insurance, office
  resources, data connectivity, etc.) are increasingly procured either
  through ad-hoc agreements: eg. Marriage for health insurance,
  Co-working spaces, "Freelancers' Unions" and so forth.

Leadership and Co-Operative Governance
--------------------------------------

The question that I think I've failed to really address in during all of
this "co-op" conversation is **If corporations are replaced by
cooperative organizations, how are projects managed and where does
leadership come from?** Indeed one of the biggest benefits/strengths of
the corporation (top-down) model, is that corporations are really (or at
the least reasonably) well organized and constituted, so if we're doing
away with the corporation, how do we remain organized and productive.

I should, as an interlude, reiterate that I've advocated for cooperative
organizations on the basis that they're more effective at creating real
and authentic value, than the American/multinational corporation as we
now know it. Furthermore, I'm totally convinced in the necessity and
utility of effective leadership and management, for our productivity.
The post-corporate economy isn't a world without management, but rather
a world with a smarter, more distributed system for management.

Part of the distribution of management comes from the fact that labor
itself is to be more distributed. Just as we bring on engineers,
artists, manufacturing in an often ad hoc way, we might also bring on
project management and other "logistical professionals" to promote
productivity. (*Remember that coops are organizations that are unlikely
to involve the direct labor of more than 100 or 150 people at any given
time.*) Higher level administration and guidance can be provided by
small elected/nominated executive councils (a la, the KDE project, the
Squeak Project, or the Debian Project) or in the "benevolent dictator"
model (eg. Linus' for Linux, Larry Wall for Perl, Guido for Python,
Dries for Drupal, Matt Mullenweg for WordPress, Rasmus for PHP, etc.)

Another "inherent" solution for providing management derives from the
fact that cooperatives have a more pervasive project-based and goal
oriented focus. Cooperatives, then, like open source software
development projects, work on *making something of value,* (or providing
valuable services,) don't need to expend resources maintaining
solubility. When a co-op finishes it's project, the members move on to
other projects and co-ops.

I think creative thinking about leadership in new environments requires
a few basic assumptions:

- Democracy is created by participation rather than by elections.

- Management/logistical overheads grow geometrically while operations
  grow arithmetically.

- Co-ops would exist to both create value, and serve the interests of
  its members. Corporations exist to serve the interests of the
  investors. The dissolution of a cooperative isn't antithetical to the
  purpose of a cooperative in the way that it totally antithetical to
  the purpose of a corporation.

Land and the Problem of Government
----------------------------------

I'm persistently convinced that the "State" (as in the United States) or
province (in the Canadian/Australian sense) is probably a really
ineffective way to organize and structure a government. A lot of the
people who are object to the American government advocate for
states-rights and taking power and authority from the federal government
and handing it to the states (eg. Libertarians). This has always struck
me as sort of foolish.

Not because I think local control is a bad thing, or I have any great
love of the institutions of liberal democracy, but rather because
**States** themselves fail to convey meaningful/practical/useful
administrative or political units. A co-operative ethos would require
(and need, though not--strictly speaking--depend upon,) a system where
institutions and governance transpired along meaningful and practical
political units.

Greater metropolitan areas make sense as administrative units (including
those that straddle existing borders) in a way that states themselves
don't really. Gary Indiana and the City of Chicago have a lot more in
common than Chicago and Carbondale Illinois. At the same time there's a
big problem with the city-state, as "the unit of government:" it fails
to account for, integrate, capture, and empower people in less urban
areas. Which is given the importance of food, is incredibly crucial.

I'm interested in thinking about how, particularly with new
technologies, we might be able to conceptualize geographically based
political units that integrate populations that fairly represents the
interests/needs of people who live in areas with lower population
densities.
