============
Laptop Usage
============

.. post:: 2009-04-20
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, technology

My grandmother reminds me that she got a laptop in the late
eighties, [1]_ it's massive by today's standards (particularly in
comparison to my 12 inch thinkpad), but it had a great keyobard, and she
remembers using it rather effectively. It had WordPerfect 5.1 back in
the day but I think it also had StarWriter/StarOffice (which, the astute
will recognize as the predecessor code-base for today's Open Office). It
probably weight ten or fifteen pounds, and I think she even brought it
between work and home several times a week (using a luggage cart); but
this was before her days on the Internet, and like all good things this
laptop has gone to the land beyond.

For my college years, and a few years after I was a laptop-only computer
user. It didn't make sense to have a computer that I'd have to move so
damn frequently, and it wasn't like I was playing games or anything that
would require desktop, and I loved having only one machine to keep
current and up to date. It seems like laptop-only is a definite trend
among the Internet-hipster/start-up monkey crowd. And it's admirable,
and for these folks (who are likely, and appropriately, Apple users) a
laptop-tax of 400 dollars isn't too much for people who have already
bought into the Apple tax.

And then, along came the "netbook" phenomena, which posits that most of
the time we don't really need a desktop-grade laptop when we're on the
run. There's a lot of merit to this model as well. We don't really need
to carry around powerhouses to check our emails in coffee shops, and for
folks like me for whom the vast majority of our computing is pretty
lightweight, building a system around a primary desktop computer and a
sufficient but not supercharged laptop makes a lot of sense.

So what kind of laptop system do you use?

.. [1]
Turns out it was a `toshiba
t100 <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toshiba_T1000>`__. `Here's another
picture/account <http://www.retrothing.com/2006/05/toshiba_t1000_s.html>`__

