====
late
====

.. post:: 2007-12-22
   :author: tychoish

I'm still basking in the glory of having finished my graduate
applications in one fell swoop yesterday and today. We're driving off to
points westward in the morning. Very early in the morning. So early in
the morning that I should have already gotten through a sleep cycle.

Rather than experience this accomplishment with a frenetic high, the
release of stress over this, has made me sort of worn out and tired. I
took a long nap this afternoon and I've been pretty tired all evening,
to the point that I'm not quite able to judge if I'd be tired enough to
sleep. So I haven't.

But don't fear, I've already recused myself from the early driving shift
if I need to, but I might not. And I want to be able to go to bed at
like 9:30 or 10 tomorrow so that I can get up at like 5:00 and write the
following morning.

Just incase we get snowed in, I'll have enough podcasts and audio on my
ipod to last me for the next 4 months. I discovered that the last time I
synced my ipod was before labor day (the last time we made the trip for
points westward). And while I listened to a lot of content, I certainly
didn't empty my stash out. If that's not enough, I'm also brining a hard
drive with video content, mostly because I'm being indecisive about what
I want to bring with me, and I'm uncharacteristically low on on-computer
video content to watch.

Other than the application wrap up and some errands (so: oil change,
bank, post office) and the aforementioned nap, I didn't get a lot done
today, which I think is totally acceptable. I did go through and
reorganize a lot of the files that I work from day in and day out, and I
refrehsed my todo lists, which was much needed. I also spent some time
to draw up a very basic site plan for the new TealArt Web site. I'm
closer than I thought, I think, but I still need to have a sit down with
`amy <http://www.domesticat.net/>`__ about
`drupal <http://drupal.org/>`__ but I don't think things are *that* far
off. Good news.

Well have a good day, I'll post more when I'm settled.

Onward and Upward!

