=====================
Late-Breaking TealArt
=====================

.. post:: 2007-08-13
   :author: tychoish

Hello friends!

I hope you had a good a productive weekend. This message will be brief
(sorry!). As you can see, perhaps the biggest news for TealArt is the
new design. The template is completely home grown, and I'm quite pleased
with the result. I have to imagine that a good percentage of our
readership is via RSS, so in a sense it doesn't matter much, but I do
think that the old design was, *ahem* difficult to read and squished. I
hope this addresses that problem. One person pointed out that our look
is very "web 1.0" and I think that's completely true and I embrace that.
We're just a text based weblog and there's not a lot between you and the
text. As there should be.

My other concern, and Chris' predictable comment, is that the font is
atypical and hard to read. This monospaced font ("monaco," or courier if
you don't have it). Is the font that I live in, and so maybe I'm used to
it. In any case we're talking about how to make it a little more livable
for you all, and if you have any recommendations, I'm going to be making
a few tweaks over the next week or so. On my list already is:

- A template for static pages (ie. our profiles, that our outside of
  the loop) like our profiles.
- Narrow the comment entry field so that it doesn't spill over.
- Make an adjustment to the category pages so that they display a
  complete, rather than a partial list of entries in a given category.

Anything else to add to this list is of course welcome. And if you have
an idea about how to use a cool font that isn't Verdana, Times, or
Georgia, I'd love to hear it.

In terms of TealArt content for the rest of the week:

There's going to be another two-part Station Keeping story. This is the
penultimate installment, and it's a little bit different: it's a script.
I've always been intrigued by scripts and I quite like writing them, but
I have until now, not had a very good way of getting a script into any
sort of format, particularly one readable on a website. But there's an
amazing `screen writing bundle for
TextMate <http://ollieman.net/screenbundle/>`__, which is the ideal
writing environment for me at the moment. I had a great deal of fun with
this installment, and I'll talk a little bit more about it in the intro
tomorrow, but I'd really like to know what you all think: I'm
considering doing large portions (all) of Season 3 as a script, and
would really like to know how it plays.

I also have an essay on writing and productivity for you on wednesday,
and there'll be something fun on Friday.

In terms of me, I'm adjusting to life back here. Classes start next
week, and while it's good to have classes to go to, they weren't the
classes that I had hoped for, and at least some part of me is saying
"but I just graduated!" All of these things are true, but these classes
are pretty exciting, and on the whole I think a good thing. I have
scores of things to do between now and then, but I'm pretty excited
about a lot of the stuff that I've been up to.

One of those things (and I promise that this is the last thing), is this
new novella that I'm working on. Being more of a longer-form guy, I
haven't really had a chance to spend a lot of time with a fiction
project in years (save station keeping, and the project from whence it
grew), and it's great to be working on something. I'd probably be pretty
pleased no matter how it was turning out, fiction writing is one of
those things that I just need to do, but having said that, it's turning
out really well. I feel pretty good about my process and the product.
I'm done with the first chapter, for now, and I'm starting to mull over
the second chapter which I hope to have a serious dent in by this time
next week. It's not TealArt, *per se*, but its exciting, so that's good
enough for me.

Anyway, I've rambled for long enough, I think it's time to get ready for
the day in earnest. Have a good week, and I'll see you tomorrow for a
new *Station Keeping.*

Cheers, tycho
