=========================
Leopard Yearnings, Update
=========================

.. post:: 2008-01-21
   :author: tychoish

My drive today was pretty darn uneventful. I listened to a lot of
`MacBreak Weekly <http://twit.tv/mbw>`__ (so excuse the very mac centric
post that follows) and I actually think I'm caught up. My little car is
amazing and peppy, despite its diminutive size, and while I am quite
tired as a result of this drive, these things happen. And actually,
beginning to want to think about bed by 9 pm, or thereabouts, is
probably a good place to be given my desire to sort of readjust my sleep
schedule.

My grandmother is doing pretty well. We had a good (early) dinner that I
picked up on my way in, and sat around this evening. It'll be good to be
here for a few days, and we'll see.

Before I left today, my mother got her new iMac a bit earlier than she
expected. Today. On a national holiday. I ask you, isn't apple just
amazing? I thought so. So I spent some time migrating all of her stuff
from the old ibook to the new machine. But only really an hour. Aren't
Macs just amazing.

This leaves me feeling incredibly jealous, I must admit. I'm going to
begin shifting all of our older computers to leopard as soon as she says
the transition is complete. Well maybe all of them. I don't know. I
really want a new computer though. My resolution to wait continues,
though it wears.

My current apple prediction is that there'll be all new MacBook pros in
June, and *maybe* new mac book consumer laptops (do we call them MacBook
cons?) in August. I think the MacBook Air closes hope of a 12 inch
laptop anytime in the near future. (TheBoy and many others are likely
quite upset with this, news, and sort of so am I, but I frankly can't
see it happening.)

Given where I am now, I'm almost certainly looking at the macbook "con".
I can't, frankly, think of a situation where it *wouldn't* be
sufficient, the screen is big enough, and the Macbook Pros aren't *that*
much better in comparison. The thing about apple laptops is that,
depending on *when* you buy a laptop the difference between the pro and
the "con" is pretty variable. At some points in the cycle, the only
difference other than the screen between the one and the other is a
graphics card, and 200 megahertz (for a thousand dollars or more), and
other times in the cycle the pro computers have higher pixel density or
other screen differences, considerably faster drives, and nice really
beefy graphics cards. The later was the case when I got Zoe. It's not
the case now.

On the one hand there's no *good* reason that I couldn't wait until
August to upgrade, and I'm--awkwardly, on all fronts--at a point in my
life where a "play each day by ear" attitude seems to be the most
indicated approach to living. Maybe in celebration I'll upgrade after I
get an acceptance letter to one of my top schools (along with a long
awaited road trip to visit friends, I think), maybe I'll hold out until
June and see what get announced then. Maybe I'll go until August,
because why the hell not?

Sigh. I do know that I'm going to be getting a spinning wheel sometime
in the next 6-8 weeks or so, I think. I've sold a wheel that I've had
for a long time, and been pretty incapable of ever using. This means
that I only own one spinning wheel, and I have a few leads there. It'll
be nice to have one wheel that I can use consistently for a long time.
Boy oh boy. I think spinning was something that I was looking forward to
doing this week before the trip became an issue, but that's ok, there
are plenty of things that need attention anyway.

Speaking of which, I'm going to go attend. Sleep well and have a good
week, I will continue to be in touch.

tycho out!

