===========
Line Length
===========

.. post:: 2008-01-07
   :author: tychoish

Ok, I've stayed off the tech post topic for a while, and now I have a
question.

This post follows, to my mind, an `earlier
one <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/markers-of-progress/>`__ I made about
subversion and using version control commits as a way to track
productivity. Or at least that's what I was thinking about. There's also
been `a post about version control on 43
folders <http://www.43folders.com/forum/2008/01/04/getting-version-control>`__,
the discussion of which has interested me a bit.

The truth is that I'm not a programer, and most of the stuff I do in
side of subversion in my repository is not with anything that's like
code. Usually this doesn't matter, because in truth I'm using
`subversion (SVN) <http://subversion.tigris.org/>`__ as a backup tool
and means to, at least theoretically, work on a project from multiple
machines, mostly. Not that I ever work from multiple machines, but it's
a comforting thought.

However, as I start to do revisions and edits on projects, and I've
gotten on a rhythm of doing SVN commits every couple hundred words as I
write fiction, I think I'd like to be able to track the changes I make
on an atomic level.

Thankfully this is all built into SVN, and the svn diff command is quite
handy. The issue is that, while I write everything in plain text files,
I use soft line breaks. So while my writing wraps to the window I'm
using, but when I save the file, the only line breaks are at the end of
my--sometimes quite long--paragraphs.

In every day use, I find that this isn't a huge problem, but if I'm
using a diff tool, or in fact a great deal of command line tools that
return results based on line, like say grep. So if I change a comma in
one line/paragraph, that's 500 characters long, (the comma that preceded
this parenthetical was at character #257, for point of reference,) diff
returns the whole paragraph not just the line. Breaking lines would give
this command a greater usefullness in this situation.

So my main questions, I guess, are:

1. How long do I make lines, so that they're a good standard length?

2. How do I do this so that my files aren't asinine to look at for the
   unanointed?

3. I suppose conversely, if I'm crazy for thinking to do this, if you
   have a better idea for fixing this issue, I'm all ears.

Onward and Upward!
