========
Link Rot
========

.. post:: 2005-10-09
   :author: tychoish

So this isn't link rot in the normal sense, I'm not going to post about
how links age on the internet, because frankly I bet you could care
less. No, I'm going to post about links that have been sitting around in
my "you should post TealArt entries about these articles" folder (ok so
it's a mental categorization, shoot me.

**We Are Not OK** This one from June 17th. About gay male community
issues, relating to drug usage, HIV. I really enjoyed the authors
analysis that: > One of the questions I most frequently ask residents is
"What is it that you wanted to do sexually that you could only do when
you were high?" You might suppose that the answer would be an array of
sex acts so extreme and kinky as to be unimaginable. And for some this
is true. However, for most, their fantasy is no more than to get fucked
and to connect with another man. Albeit in all the wrong places and all
the wrong ways, these guys are basically looking for love.

Spot on. People keep saying things like that, pretty soon I'll be out of
a job. But seriously, I think the guy nailed it here. This is why
projects like WWOTB are necessary, this kind of analysis makes what I'm
interested in worthwhile. I need to go back over the research, but my
sense is that gay men, for a multitude of reasons, are not exceptional
in their problematic ability to relate to each other/other men (the
leader in this little sub-group is Peter Nardi, who's work is
fascinating and really rather good. So there.) Nardi's work is so
interesting, it's a good thing he's at a college that doesn't have a
Ph.D. program, elsewise (my new favorite word), I'd be tempted to apply
to study with him, and I'm not sure I can deal with that kind of
disciplinary shift. (Though in fairness, I'm practically doing sociology
at this point anyway, so it wouldn't be too shocking, never the less,
despite any griping that may go on, I'm pretty happy where I am.)

**Bloggers Need Not Apply** Seems, search committees for academic jobs
google people as part of their process, and people's blogging has
interfered with jobs and what not. I worried about this for a while, but
then it became a non issue, or something. TealArt isn't a typical blog:
I don't complain about people or shitty institutional situations and I
don't share any information that could be potentially identifying. The
most incriminating act that I commit on TealArt is blathering, and
unreviewed academic work, which at this point isn't a big deal, and
frankly I think TealArt is more of an asset than a potential harm.
*Shrug*, the article is good though. Enjoy it.

I'm feeling all bloggy, so expect a spree in the next few days/hours.
Cheers... Sam

