============
Linux Update
============

.. post:: 2008-10-20
   :author: tychoish

So I, um, bought a computer last Friday.

People who followed the lead up to the purchase of my current
computer--which took six months, or a year depending on who you
ask--will be surprised that this happened so quickly.

For a while now I've wanted to have a computer that would be able to
always be on so that I could download big files when I needed to without
needing to fuss with making sure that my laptop could be on all night,
or similar such concerns. I wanted to have a computer that I could add
cheap drives to as needed. I want to be able to have a computer
connected to a couple of IRC channels without needing to worry about my
computer dropping on and off-line constantly (which is a politeness that
I worry about.)

The thing is that it never seemed feasible. Macs are expensive
computers, and this wasn't a premium sort of use case. For many years of
my life I was *really* mobile and having a desktop computer never made
much sense. Now that this new job has started to settle down, and as
I've gotten more into linux, it's becoming more and more clear that
having a desktop computer with lots of screen space is going to be
really valuable to me in this next stage anyway, and the truth is that I
spend a good deal of my computing time (with my laptop) at my desk, so a
desktop made a lot of sense.

And with this growing interest in open source
technology/community/history it makes a lot of sense to gather some
greater familiarity with the environment. So between the new usage
profile, the fact that the hardware isn't nearly as expensive in
practice, and the fact that having a linux box would be a good
ethnographic experience, I just hunkered down and bought it, after only
a few weeks of dithering on the subject. I even splurged and got a
second monitor so that I could run dual monitors, even so it cost less
than the souped up MiniMac (which is sans monitor). I'm psyched.

While I'll spare you the unboxing photos, I think its highly likely that
I'll be writing about my experiences with this new computer as I settle
in. Stay tuned...

