============================
Linux Switching and Editors
============================

.. post:: 2008-09-26
   :author: tychoish

Ok, I have two things to ask/pose/announce, which only seems fitting
after writing something about how `blog posts should be more singularly
focused <http://tychoish.com/posts/blogging-about-ideas/>`__. Figures.

**Part One: Switching to Linux**

So, I've mentioned "the great linux switching of 2008" a few times, but
never really explained it. Here's a proper exploration:

I'm finally begining to feel the pinch of not having a desktop computer.
Don't get me wrong, I really love my laptop, and will likely still use
it a *lot*. My issue, is that I want more screen space than I'm really
willing to pay for in a laptop (and a better keyboard), and I want to be
able to dig a little deeper into the open source world for various
reasons. And I've realized that the cost of building a multi-screen
desktop isn't going to be particularly prohibitive. So it seems like the
right thing to do.

I started out the linux journey running ubuntu (hardy) and it was ok,
but not great. Then I spent most of the week plaiyng around with `gentoo
linux <http://www.gentoo.org/>`__ and toying with the idea of other
distrobutions like `ArchLinux <http://www.archlinux.org/>`__, say. And
the end result was that while ubuntu was frustrating from time to time,
it would work. I mean really work. So having learned my lesson--which I
think is the most valuable product important re: the linux community of
this process--I'm back to using ubuntu, and it's working better than
ever.

**Part Two: Editor Dependence**

As part of the "Great Linux Switch of '08," [1]_ I've been spending a
lot of time working in a `virtual machine
instalation <http://tychoish.com/posts/vms-for-all/>`__ of linux
(first ubuntu, now gentoo) to practice the setup and get a slate of
configuration files all ready for the machine when I finally order the
real hardware. Going into this, I knew that the hardest part of the
transition to linux was going to be the text editor part. Which wasn't
insignifigant given that, I write a lot of text and I'm a devotee of the
OS X only "`TextMate <http://macromates.com/>`__."

In my linux useage I've been using vim a lot, and I've written about my
vim trials for some time here, in various ways. Including, my comment to
`twitter <http://www.twitter.com/tychoish/>`__ that "vim isn't something
that people ever learn, as much as give up on." Having said that, I
think I've got mostly got a hang of it it. I need to get highlighting
for `Markdown <http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/>`__ and a
few other things nailed out. And there are a lot of things that I don't
quite know how to do, but I'm getting there. The other thing that I've
recognized myself doing is using more than one editor, or at least
multiple variants of .

I mean, we use plain text files because they're standard and just about
every editor can read them. Isn't it ironic then, that I/we grow so
dependent on specific programs? Despite irony, it's true for pretty good
reasons. [2]_ In anycase, for a lot of drafting and blogging writing,
I've been using `cream <http://cream.sourceforge.net/>`__, a modern
interface/configuration of vim that basically acts like you'd expect an
editor written in the last twenty-thirty years to act. [3]_ And I've
even been using standard gui-vim (gvim) for some things, and it's not
all bad.

Having reported this, I can't decide if:

1. I haven't found the linux editing enviroment nirvana.
2. I'm maturing in my geekyness/editor use and am become more in touch
   with/accepting of mostly standard configurations.

What do you all use/like? Thoughts

.. [1] Possible Tagline: *More interesting than the election, and
   potentially less disheartening.*

.. [2] comofort with enviroment leads to more efficency/pleasure.

.. [3] Vim is decended relatively directly from vi which was written in the
   late sixties, as one of the first (vi)sual editors. The basic idea is
   that the editing experience is modal. In "normal mode" you move the
   cursor around your documents, copy ("yank") and paste ("put") text,
   delete text, and issue commands to the editor (save, etc). In "insert
   mode" when you type the characters are entered into your document
   (which would be "normal" for the rest of us, right?) Anyway, this
   lets you make the most of your keyboard, and saves your pinkies from
   over use on the control/meta keys and directional/arrow keys, and the
   end result is an editor that's very powerful and very useful, once
   you give up and submit to thinking in *it's* way
