==========
Long Hands
==========

.. post:: 2008-07-21
   :author: tychoish

So I have a confession to make. I'm not writing longhand very much at
all. Actually its insignificant the amount that I'm writing things out
longhand any more. I was struck by this fact the other day, when, after
a day where I felt like I didn't get anything done, I opened a notebook
and did some project planning/review on a sheet of paper. And I realized
that my fountain pen was empty.

The interesting thing, I think is that I'm sort of a pen nut, and I've
always loved having cool pens that made *the act of* writing a pleasure.
So much so that since *high school* I've always had a Namiki Vanishing
Point Fountain Pen around. These are heaty, but very usable fountain
pens, that use a retracting nib (awesome!) and the grind on Pilot/Namiki
nibs is great [1]_. I love writing by hand, and for a long time I've
felt that I do my best planning and rough work long hand.

There two big reasons that I think this has worked so well for me. First
of all, I have a great spatial memory, and having notes that are fixed
on a page makes them easy to remember, particularly if they're arranged
sequentially, reading through the past archive can be a really power
contextual memory aide. I haven't tried it in a while, but I can take a
notebook from the past, and flip through the pages and *sometimes*
recall all sorts of stuff about the *moment* in my life that I was
writing those notes [2]_.

But there's a conflict here. I'm a geek so it makes sense to a digital
system to keep track of these notes. After all, it's just text. There
are a score of reasons why this makes sense: digital text is searchable,
it's more enduring, its easier to read, there are search tools, and I
type *considerably* faster than I can write long hand. But, there are of
course downsides: digital text isn't *as* portable for on the fly
creation, the semantic/spacial "features" of notebooks are basically
lost, and the truth is that search is only really useful if you're
looking "for" something, rather than browsing through [3]_ taking
system, because in order for search to be useable you need to be looking
"for something" where as, if you're looking at a notebook, it's all
browse and no search. Clearly there's a place for search, but loosing
"browsing cabibility," is a huge downgrade.

At some point, about a year ago--as this was the inspiration for
tychoish.com--I thought hey, "maybe a "blog" notebook could give linear
context," and still be digital. Well tychoish.com didn't work out so
well for this, but I've been using `ikiwiki <http://ikiwiki.info/>`__,
which is mostly a wiki, but it has some useful blogging capabilities.
Unfortunately, I've had a hard time getting it to work since I upgraded
my computer, and switched to git. [4]_

And the end result is, that without really trying to, exactly, I've
gotten to the point where I'm not writing anything out, really, and I
have, sort of, all the bases covered. I have a computer that is more
portable than the last one. I have a flash drive with a couple of good
ssh clients on it, I have web access to my repositories. It's all there,
and it's all accessible (to me), and that's something that I can already
tell has been a good thing for my workflow. At the same time, as my
little project planning session a few days ago with the notebook
illustrated, there are times when the change of venue/context is enough
to get things rolling if they're stalled.

The moral? Digital is good, particularly once you find the right
solution, but maybe it isn't *quite* time to throw away all the
notebooks. Also I write this I realize that I should probably write a
post about backup, but that's for another day.

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com/>`__!

.. [1] So here's a bit of specialized knowledge that doesn't get out very
   much: Apparently Pilot/Namiki (who also, incidentally make the nibs
   for Cross pens, or used to at any rate) run about a half size smaller
   than other makers. I think this is the difference between
   German/European and Japanese/Asian pen makers (which I think is
   true,) and might be related to the difference in absorbency of
   velum/high-rag content paper, versus rice paper, but that's just me
   talking out of my ass.

.. [2] Interestingly, this has always been the most successful when I have
   used the least structured note taking methods, and don't divide my
   notetaking into too many piles. Having one big box to put things in,
   means that the semantic connections between all the bits of
   information remain intact.

.. [3] I'm *tycho of the footnotes* today. Anyway, as an aside I'd wager
   that the "browsability" of wikis is perhaps the undervalued key to
   their success (and also a reason why many wiki's fail). You can, as I
   often do, just bounce around a topic or category in wikipedia and
   learn a great deal, whereas with the rest of the internet, you're
   less likely to get more than one or two degrees away from a google
   search.

.. [4] It's really ironic, because new hardware/software, and a more capable
   database, should make the software work *better* not *worse*, but
   it's clearly an install issue related to the fact that I'm in a
   pretty non standard environment. It's a **great** program, and it's
   even better if you're using a debian-flavor and don't have to fight
   it to install. Seriously this is another aside, but if I could get OS
   X apps and interfaces with a debian core/apt-get that really worked
   consistently, I would never look back.
