=============
Long Threads 
=============

.. post:: 2008-11-05
   :author: tychoish

Have you ever noticed how email exchanges where it's just you writing
back with a friend or two always seems to peter out after about 3
volleys? And how online discussions seem to go on *and on*? And how a
lot of virtual communities--particularly the really active ones--are
full of drivel?

Yeah, me too. I don't have a particularly good answer for it either. I
think the sociological/psychological reasons are pretty straight
forward: the conversations linger because the medium is time-shifted,
each party of the conversation has to contribute less resources to
keeping the discussion going. This is why flame wars are/were such a big
issue on listservs and usenet, or at least part of the reason.

This isn't to say that flame wars aren't still an issue on the internet,
or that usenet/listservs aren't still important, but I think a lot of
the discussions that happen on the interent happen elsewhere these days.
Usenet and group email, are still prevalent, but I think the inhabitants
of both tend to be hacker types or old timers (and more likely both),
and these are two groups who are on the whole pretty adept at how these
kinds of communications work.

In the last five to ten years communications on the interent have really
changed. We've gone from very structured mediums that come with built in
threading, topically segregated conversation, with some semblance of
`push functionality <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/the-big-push/>`__ and
even web-based discussion forums, to unstructured and chaotic mediums
like blogs, blog comments, and wikis.

While I *am* a bit nostalgic, the truth is that these changes have
enhanced the ways that we can collaborate and really democratized the
internet, and this is unequivocally a good thing. At the same time, as I
visit really active conversations in threads or prolific
`ravelry <http://www.ravelry.com>`__, my brain hurts. There's too much
to follow, too much noise not enough signal, and the strict
chronological display changes the way that people read and respond
non-productively (and probably is the root of most of my complaints).

There have been a number of "hacks" that various communities have
deployed to help keep conversations together. Threading blog comments,
or including comment numbers makes the comments on a given post easier
to read help, but they don't change the fact that conversations on the
new internet are really *hard* to organize and orchestrate, and after a
certain point, enter.

I don't want to be a hipster and say "no one has genuine conversations
on the internet anymore," but I think its really clear that the kinds of
conversations that happen online (these days) are *very* constrained by
the kinds of technology that are used to convey those conversations both
in terms of how conversations develop, but also in terms of who can and
does participate in those conversations. While this is in and of itself
not a particularly striking revelation, I think it's also clear that
we--as citizens of the internet--cannot just say "it's the internet
anyone can access it," and let it go at that.

Sorry if this is a bit disjointed, hopefully I'll figure more things out
in a bit.

Onward and Upward!

