============
Marking Time
============

.. post:: 2008-02-20
   :author: tychoish

Life returns to normal. All is well. I have this trip in a few days (ie
fly out tomorrow afternoon), and my life remains sort scattered. But
that's normal these days, but I'm coping pretty well.

By the time I got home yesterday, I was completely knackered. I have to
work on building my tolerance up for mental activity late in the
evening. I haven't been working much (due to a confluence of factors
largely outside of my control,) and while this isn't ideal, with factors
outside of my control--there's not a lot I can do quite yet. Except work
on being able to be productive in the evening.

Given that I couldn't fathom the concept of really reading last night, I
watched an episode of `Star Trek: New
Voyages <http://www.startreknewvoyages.com/>`__ while I sewed up. The
last of the hem on the Turkish Tile sweater.

Given my last post on the `feminist sf
blog <http://blogs.feministsf.net>`__ about Star Trek, you might think
that I'm having an obsession of sorts, but the truth is that I'm not,
really.

But about the sweater: I've been worried about this sweater for a long
time. and it's getting much better. I had to, I must admit, resort to
sewing elastic into the collar to help it lay right, but it almost looks
normal at this point. As I look at it, though, I think that the sweater
still needs some serious attention around the collar area. Like there
isn't enough collar, by like an inch.

If this were a crew neck sweater, it would be a synch to add a fold down
shirt collar (like those on oxford shirts) but since its more of a
v-neck, that doesn't seems terribly likely. I might just have to resort
to making a matching scarf. *Any thoughts that you may have about this
would be really helpful,* now that I have the defects corrected (with
the elastic) I'm fresh out of ideas.

I do intend to do a real wet blocking before I add anything on to this
sweater. There is of course lots of time in the world. And since I've
learned my lesson in this regard **and** I have another sweater that has
a very similar construction, I know exactly what I have to do
differently this time.

Anyway, given that writing is slow in the evening, I should get on it
while I still have brain cells around.

Onward and Upward!

