==========
Mars Orbit
==========

.. post:: 2007-11-22
   :author: tychoish

I write science fiction, and truth be told, and I think the space opera
form has life in it yet. While my last story was set on Mars and didn't
have a lot of interplanetary travel, this project does. Mostly because I
want to cover a long period of time in the stories that I'm writing now,
so that we can see characters relate to histories. So I have characters
on space ships.

One thing that I have yet to do, is create some sort of FTL
(faster-than-light) construct in the stories, and while I'm not hyper
vigilant about making sure that planets are actually going to be where
they are in relation to each other when I say they are, I've built
transit times into my plots and stuff like that, so that there's at
least some sense of a "price" for technologies that seem too good to be
true. And I think in some ways this connects to some sort of notion of
`constrained
creativity <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/constrained-creativity/>`__ and
particularly in fiction this is what makes stories interesting

So, in pursuit of making this work I occasionally find myself looking up
orbital mechanics and interplanetary transit systems, to figure out how
to get ships and planets to be in roughly the same place at the same
time. There's only a little bit of this, in the current book thankfully:
most of the story takes place on ships bound out of the solar system and
on Titan, Saturn's largest moon. But at the moment I'm following a ship
that's making it's way to Titan, with a brief detour to Mars. So I once
again find myself trying to figure out Martian orbital dynamics and
distances. Sigh.

`This website about Martian
Orbits <http://zebu.uoregon.edu/~soper/Orbits/marsorbit.html>`__ is
quite helpful.

Also, for those of you playing along at home, I think--think here--that
an object that was .25 of a martian year *behind* mars in orbit would be
about 17 light minutes away from Mars. This is between Mars and the L4
(or 5 if mars is ahead) `Lagrarian
points <http://www.bautforum.com/archive/index.php/t-38085.html>`__,
which are, despite being farther away only 12 minutes away. (.25 of a
year, is 45 degrees ahead/behind mars, the L4/5 points are 60 degrees
ahead/behind. I'm figuring that the Mars Orbit, at 1.5 AU, to Earths 1
AU has a radius of 12 light minutes, or 134123326 miles.)

This ignores the fact that the orbits are all elliptical, and the effect
of gravity on light/radio waves, which exists, surely, but not I think
to a degree great enough to affect the truthfulness of a character that
says "The message is about 20 minutes old."

I wonder if you can get a job doing something with rudimentary orbital
mechanics with an undergraduate degree in psychology and no college
level math. *Sigh*. Guess I better stick to writing.

Hope your turkey preparations are going well.

