=================
martian economics
=================

.. post:: 2009-05-06
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: economics, science-fiction

I've been reading--and by god I hope by the time I post this, I'm done
reading--Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars Trilogy. I read (parts of) these
once before, but I was busy adjusting to college at the moment and I
didn't retain a great deal from that experience. In any case, there's a
lot in these stories to pick apart and absorb.

And I enjoy that. I really like science fiction that both tells a good
story and contributes to some sort of intellectual conversation that's
bigger than it. Surely all literature has some theoretical conception of
itself, but work that unabashedly tussles with relevant knowledge is
particularly powerful.

Hell, at one point, a character in *Blue Mars* meditates on Deleuzian
philosophy. My heart goes pitter pattter at the sight of people who are
willing to mediate on Deleuze and do a good job at it. (Ironically, or
perhaps not, I think a lot of academics don't quite know what to do with
Deleuze.) Anyway...

One of the things that I've really enjoyed thinking about while reading
*Green* and *Blue Mars* is that Robinson does a lot of economic
theorizing and imagination. I find this an interesting playground as a
`lesson from
fiction <http://tychoish.com/posts/lessons-from-fiction>`__, and also
as a productive consideration of the issues I began to talk about in my
`essay on co-ops, competition, and
openness <http://tychoish.com/posts/coops-competition-openness>`__.

So read the book, particularly if you haven't or if you're interested in
thinking about economic systems and potentials, but the current economy
is... boggling.

Robinson posits (a martian) system where land is collectively owned,
where projects (research, farming, construction) are undertaken by
~100-person co-ops that workers have to buy-into (with money earned
during internships), with everything overseen by a Judaical system that
makes judgments on mostly with regards to environmental impact.

My father, upon reading this, made the very apt judgment that, the key
here is that--on Mars--there's no countryside, and that farming (because
it's attached to cities because of the Atmosphere issue). While this is
a vast oversimplification--of course--he's right: `new age hacker-type
economic
models <http://tychoish.com/posts/coops-competition-openness>`__ need
to consider "industries" like materials engineering and food production
more than they currently do.

We have a lot of thinking to do.

