==============
Materialist SF
==============

.. post:: 2009-01-14
   :author: tychoish

I was talking about the recent events in the US "economy" and my latest
fiction writing project the other day, and while the connection between
the two seemed more direct in the moment and doesn't bear repeating I
found that I uttered the following statement:

"You know, there isn't a lot of materialist space opera/science fiction
out there."

And as soon as I had spoken the words, I knew that I *had* to be wrong.
Or at least I hoped I was.

It's understandable that science fiction often isn't terribly
materialist. I suspect many SF writers are attracted to the genre
because SF is a great platform for exploring new (and old) ideas, in a
setting that's *just* enough different from our contemporary setting to
make us *think*. While the spaceships and aliens certainly helped draw
me in when I was a kid, the ideas are what have kept me as a bigger
kid/adult.

And let's be honest dealing with ideas about material is difficult in
the space opera type setting. To assume that goods--food, clothing,
fuel, technology-- will continue to be scarce in universes that have
faster than light travel, and amazingly decked-out space ships, can be a
bit tough to swallow. Similarly, with that kind of technology, might we
just assume that no one has to work in the factories or the mines, and
really that does seem to be the more logical assumption.

Often, even stories that have economic themes, or plots (about trade or
political intrigue) aren't particularly grounded in a material
understanding of economics. By which I mean, we don't often read stories
that deal with how capital is created (labor,) transported, or consumed.
If stories even have some sort of in-world money, we so rarely see where
the value that currency comes from. Right?

I suppose I should clarify that my thought process started with space
opera and expanded outward from there. Clearly Space Opera is probably
the *most* prone to these sorts of non-materialist stories, but other
areas of the genre suffer to varying degrees.

My next project was to think of stories and novels that *we're*
materialist in some way. So here's what I came up with:

**Empire Star** by Samuel Delany *turns* on a very materialist plot. The
story would be hard to summarize, and I wouldn't want to spoil it, for
anyone who hasn't read it, but in a way, it's all about the alienation
of labor and rebuilding capital after a war. In contrast, **Babel-17**
(also Delany) *isn't* particularly materialist at all: while there is a
war that certainly has effects on capital, labor, and trade that's not
particularly relevant to the story, except in the abstract. I mention
them in the same breath because, *Empire Star* is the companion to
*Babel-17*, and they were published together (and their both great, if
very different, stories). *Empire Star,* is a novella and gets
anthologized with some regularity as it is both *awesome* and a great
early example of the Space Opera revival.

"Who's Afraid of Wolf 359?" by Ken MacLeod, was my second idea. The
story was published in 2007 in the Stranham/Dozis *The New Space Opera*
anthology, and was also on Escape Pod this year. The story tracks the
redevelopment of a fallen colony and in doing so manages to trace the
economic development of the galactic civilization. Though I would expect
nothing less from MacLeod.

There has to be more. I'm sure of it, I'd like to use the comments of
this post to collect other examples of materialist science fiction,
Space Opera or otherwise, and I/we can collect the results and add it to
the Feminist SF Wiki, or as a follow up post.

Cheers,

tycho

