=========================
Microblogging Aggregation
=========================

.. post:: 2009-04-08
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: new-media, cyberculture

When `Jaiku <http://www.jaiku.com>`__ gave microbloggers (ie users of
services like `identi.ca <http://identi.ca/>`__
`twitter <http://www.twitter.com/>`__, etc.) the ability to aggregate
their content onto Jaiku from blogs, flickr, delicious, and of course
twitter as well, I noted that it wouldn't take much for the Jaiku to
become a ghost town, where no one would have to actually create new
content or read in order for new content to filter through the site.
While syndication allows people to do some really amazing things with
content, without filtering, context, and moderation it's really easy to
become overwhelmed. Frankly Jaiku provide(s/ed) enough filtering ability
to make this useful but this "problem" continues:

There are services like `ping.fm <http://www.ping.fm>`__ which let you
type once and send widely to a whole host of audiences on a bunch of
different websites. Which is great: it lets you be present without
taking up all your time, it allows you to reach a very fractured
audience. Good stuff. Right?

Except not so much. The thing about "social media" and these new very
conversational media is that they're not so much about sending widely.
They're great for reaching people, *in the moment*, but they're really
more about having conversations with a community.

So we need something better. Because being shut off from your friends
because you use different websites is bad; but what amounts to using AM
radio cranked up loud to talk to your friends in a couple of different
coffee houses is worse. I think open micro blogging (like identi.ca and
laconica) is a step in the right direction, better independent profiles
and curatorial tools would be another.

Thoughts?

