======================
microsoft reconsidered
======================

.. post:: 2009-09-21
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: open-source, cyborg

I've been thinking about Microsoft recently, and thinking about how the
trajectory of Microsoft fits in with the trajectory of information
technology in general.

A lot of people in the free software world are very anti-Microsoft,
given some of the agregious anti-competitive activites they use, and
general crappiness of their software. And while I agree that MS is no
great gift to computing, it's always seemed to me that they're
johnny-come-lately to the non-free software world (comparatively
speaking AT&T and the telecom industry has done way more to limit and
obstruct software and digital freedom than microsoft, I'm thinking.) But
this is an akward argument, because there's no real lost love between me
and Microsoft, and to be honest my disagreement with Microsoft is mostly
technologcial: microsoft technology presents a poor solution to
technical problems. But I digress.

One thing that I think is difficult to convey when talking about
Microsoft is that "The Microsoft We See" is not "The Core Business of
Microsoft;" which is to say the lion's share of Microsoft's business is
in licensing things like Exchange servers (email and groupware stack) to
big organizations, and then there's the whole ASP.NET+SQL-Server stack
which a lot of technology is built upon. And Microsoft works licensing
in ways that's *absurd* to those of us who don't live in that world. A
dinky instance (ten users?) of Windows Server+Exchange for small
corporations easily *starts* at a grand (per year? bi-annually?) and
goes up from there depending on the size of the user-base. I would, by
contrast, be surprised if Microsoft saw more than 50 or 60 dollars per
desktop installation of Windows that consumers buy. [1]_ And I suspect a
given installation of windows lasts three to five years.

I don't think it's going to happen tomorrow or even next year, but I
think netbooks--and the fact that Microsoft won't put anything other
than XP on them--and the continued development of Linux on embedded
devices, and the growing market share of Apple in the Laptop Market (and
the slow death of the desktop computing market as we know it,) all serve
to make any attention that we give to market share of Windows on the
desktop, increasingly less worthwhile. This isn't to say that I think
people will flock in great numbers to other platforms, *but*...

I think what's happening, with the emergence of all these web-based
technologies, with Mono, with Flash/Flex/Silverlight/Moonlight, with
web-apps, with Qt running cross platform, with native GTK+ ports to
windows and OS X, is that what you run on your desktop is (and will
continue to become) more and more irrelevant. There won't be "the next
Microsoft," because whatever you think of the future of IT, there isn't
going to be a future where quality software is more scarce, or harder to
produce than it is today.

--------------

So this brings us back to servers licensing, and something that I
realized only recently. In the Linux world, we buy commodity hardware,
sometimes really beefy systems, and if you have a scaling problem you
just set up a new server and do some sort of clustered or distributed
setup, which definitely falls under the heading of "advanced
sysadmining," but it's not *complex*. With virutalization it's even
easier to fully utilize hardware, and create really effective
distributed environments. At the end of the day, what servers do is not
particularly *complex work* in terms of number crunching, but it is
massively parallel. And here's the catch about Windows: developers are
disincentived to run more than one server, because as soon as you do
that, your costs increase disproportionately with regard to the
hardware. Say the cost of a production server (hardware) is 4k and you
pay 2k-3k for the software. If at some point this server isn't big
enough for your needs, do you: buy an almost-twice-as-good-8k dollar
server with a single license, or just shell out another 6k-7k and have a
second instance? Now lets multiply this times 10? Or more? (I should
point out that I'm almost certainly low balling Software licensing
costs.)

At some point you do have to cave and pay for an extra Microsoft
license, but it makes a lot of sense from an operations perspective to
throw money at hardware rather than distributed architectures, because
not only is it quicker, but it's actually cheaper to avoid clusters.

*Micro*\ soft, the company that made its money in *microcomputer*
software has backed itself into being the "big iron" computing business.
Which is risky for them, and anyone. Sun Microsystems couldn't make it
work, IBM *kills* in this space (and Linux mainframes are in the
50k-100k range, which doesn't look as absurd in light of the
calculations above.)

Anyway, this post has been all over the place, and I'm not sure I can
tie it all together in a neat bow, but I think its safe to say that we
live in interesting times, and that this whole "cloud thing" combined
with the rapidly falling price of very high-powered equipment changes
all of the assumptions that we've had about software for the past twenty
or thirty years. For free software as well as the proprietary
software...

.. [1]
There's a line in the Windows EULA, that says if you don't agree with
the terms and aren't going to use the windows that comes installed on
your computer that you can get a refund on this if you call the right
people for your machine's distributor. I've heard reports of people
getting ~130 USD back for this, but it's unclear how much of that
goes to Microsoft, or to the support for MS products that OEMs have
to provide.

