==========
Milestones
==========

.. post:: 2007-12-19
   :author: tychoish

I guess this is in the `larger theme of posts about my
blogging <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/pseudonym/>`__ process, identity,
and purpose.

What's a Wednesday morning before christmas without a little bit of
healthy existential angst?

Though the merging of my old TealArt posts into tychoish muddies the
water a bit, I think I'm going to pass an important marker in my
blogging soon.

Sometime later this week I'm going to pass the 900 post marker. Having
600ish of my TealArt posts helps this, but it's noteworthy to point out
that I've posted so much to tychoish in a bit less than 6 months. One of
my big struggles with TealArt was finding the time and energy to post.
Now I can hardly live without it. That's the `Journaling
Instinct <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/journaling-instinct/>`__, I guess.

I wouldn't have posted about this except that I'm closing in on another
milestone as well, and I figure, what the hell. What's another odometer
effect? [1]_

Sometime a bit after post 900 (I guess a week or two but that's just a
guess), my weblog writings of the past 7 years will past the 300,000
word mark. Egads. I always was a bit wordy. And the funny thing is that
there's another year or two of data that was lost...

One thing that `dave <http://www.soliloqueer.com/>`__ and I have been
talking about is how to jump levels in terms of another kind of
milestone about readership.

One thing that I've been pretty conscious about with tychoish is regular
posting. If I want to make a go of this, I figured, posting often is the
key to making that work. If there's never new content, who's going to
come back? It's not like I don't have things to say, it's just a matter
of getting it out there.

One thing that I'm seeing is that regular posting will get you to the
top of your class, and allow you to make the most of what you already
have, but if you want to jump levels you have to do something else. What
that something else is, might be another issue.

Probbly the best thing is to be on the cutting edge. If you're the 1st
*whatever*, it's easier to make it than if you're the 20th. But assuming
for a moment that we don't have time machines or ESP...

Part of it is having friends. Getting links from other blogs, even
smaller ones drives traffic, and user participation (I guess to
backtrack for a moment, I'm measuring blogging success as a function of
comments and traffic). Another part is participating in forums and other
blog comments which can help a lot. There has to be a strategy out there
for choosing the right places to participate and get involved--from a
game theory/social dynamics perspective--too big and no one will click
on outbound links, to small and no one will see it. For instance, my
inbound traffic from ravelry, has gone down slightly has ravelry has
grown. I'm still loving raverly, mind you, but I think this is just how
the world works.

The other strategy is to work on additional projects. For a while,
because there were so few podcasts, doing a regular podcast would drive
a lot of attention to your work, but in this vein collaborative blogs,
guest blogging, twittering, youtube contributions (and so forth) are all
ways that you can sort of draw attention to your blog, but aren't
connected to y our blog, I guess, if that makes sense.

This whole marketing thing is clearly not my thing, but I think I get
the concepts on a pretty basic level, so it's sort of fun to play with
the ideas. And of course, I do want tychoish to make it. Even if it
doesn't it's still a great deal of fun, so it's not like I'm going to
stop... but, it's worth a shot.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1] a milestone created not by some sort of intrinsic or important
   quality of a number, but the fact that all of the digits change.
