===================================
Missing: One Brain, Fair Condition.
===================================

.. post:: 2007-11-28
   :author: tychoish

Here's another rambling "here's what I did today" post, lets see what
comes out; but first a public service announcement. If you've tried to
email me today using the tealart.com email address that I've used for
years, I've had some problem with prompt delivery. This domain at gmail,
seems pretty reliable, but I'm not sure about this. If you're trying to
get a hold of me and I'm not answering your email, I'm not ignoring you.

Today was a slow day in the yarn store. Swatch knitting transpired. I
got to work with the Dream-in-Color "Smooshy" sock yarn, which is a
great deal of fun. Another example of great/fun yarn that I'm not
incredibly likely to ever knit. I like heavier socks generally and for
stranded sweaters you really can't beat the shetland.

I think the ticker is now at T-4 rows until the underarm point of this
jacket that I'm working on. I've figured out how to set in the sleeves
properly, I think, and I've worked through the shoulders enough times to
feel, at least vaguely confident in myself, so I'm just going to go with
it. Maybe this weekend if I have enough free time.

Not that free time is very rich supply around here. Or, to be fair, as
my title seems to communicate, "free" time when I have a brain, in which
to work is pretty slim around here.

I haven't written anything longhand in the notebook in a long time, and
I'm thinking that this is a problem, but I don't quite know how to go
about getting this in order.

Doing the knit-a-long for the sport sweater, is also something that I'm
interested in working on, but I haven't had a lot of time to get the
infrastructure in place for that. I really want to "host it" using the
new TealArt site, but that's not done. I think, I'm just going to
install a "fresh" version of Wordpress, because momentum is a powerful
thing.

That's where I am. Have a good evening folks, and if you see my brain
somewhere, send please be a dear and send it back!

Onward and upward!

