=====================
Mobile Technology 2.0
=====================

.. post:: 2009-02-18
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: technology, cyborg, internet

In the last six months or year (or two years) I've written a lot here,
about technology open source software and related topics. In a way this
was a new thing for me. I majored in Women's Studies and Psychology in
college. I wrote about gender and queerness, and *knitting* for many
years. My big thing (or one of them, at any rate) is science fiction
literarture, where I'm interested in very historical/"soft" sub genres.
While some SF writers feel ghettoized by the "hard"/"soft" boundary in
the genre, I love the fact that there's (a very popular) field of
science fiction that isn't based on firm understandings of existing
science/technology and tightly formed elaboration thereon. I love being
non-technical on some level. Despite my current technological musings,
this is very much a past that I must contend with.

But I digress.

Before all of this hippy-drippy stuff, I wrote a lot about technology.
Back in 1999/2000/2001 I was reasonably active in the discourse
surrounding mobile technology. Indeed through this I discovered blogging
itself. There are a couple of subtitles to this that I think are
appropriate: first, the state of mobile technology about 10 years ago
was much different than it is today. Much different. Laptops were
significantly bigger and less portable, cellphones were much less
"smart," and disconnected PDAs were the light of the times.

But sooner rather than later, I broke down, bought a nice fountain pen
and just kept a notebook when I was away from my computer. It worked.
Eventually I got a cellphone, but I always tended toward the
"dumb"-phone type that were incredibly simple. They worked. The paper
worked. When I went away to college I got a 12 inch iBook (as my only
computer) and it was great. Small laptops with wireless and long battery
life seem to be a great solution to the "mobile technology" problem, and
as--at the time--it seemed like my life/work was trending around in a
different direction, I stared writing about different things, which when
you think about it is all for the best.

For the intervening years, I've been sort of cool toward a lot of
gadgetry. Laptops are small enough and powerful enough and frankly cheap
enough (considering) to account for a huge percentage of digital
mobility, that the remaining need is actually pretty small. And it was
my experience that mobile technology wasn't *there*, for the in between
spaces yet. Recording bits of minutia in a usable way on a PDA was never
quite as quick and seamless as doing it either on a computer or with
paper.

Eventually I've gotten back into writing about technology, but by this
time it was a different kind of technology: unix/linux stuff, cyborg
stuff, tools for writing, usage methodologies, and organization stuff.
The technology itself (for me) has taken a backseat to the ways we use
technology.

But in the mean time the mobile technology has mostly caught up. At
least somewhat. Cellphones became a lot smarter, the data transmission
got cheaper (and unlimited), syncing tools through google and mobile me
(if that's your style) make the experience much more coherent. In a lot
of ways, the fact that cellphones and connected devices
can--independently of host computers--interact with the internet has
made them infinitely more useful. And the fact that, at least in my
case, do this via protocols that we're already familiar with (REST API's
or email) makes this even more attractive.

I also think, at least in some cases, that a lot of this "web 2.0 stuff"
makes the most sense in the context of mobile devices. While I don't
often think about twittering, or dicking around on facebook when I'm
sitting somewhere with just my Blackberry, the applications that connect
with these web 2.0 services on phones are *really clever*. Maybe it's
that limited functionality apps make more sense on phones/PDAs than they
do on desktop computers, but that could just be me. In the end, I'm
still dubious of all this "web stuff," but I think it at least makes
sense now.

So there.

Onward and Upward!

