==============================
Mobile Productivity Challenges
==============================

.. post:: 2011-07-25
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: productivity, mobile-technology

I've never really figured out how to do work with anything less than a
full computer. I've tried everything: Palm Pilots and Pocket PCs in the
early 2000s, laptops, and eventually I just settled on just dragging a
(smaller) laptop almost everywhere circa 2005. I get the feeling that,
most people who have been thinking about mobile technology and
productivity assume that the only impediments to mobile productivity are
better hardware and software. Contemporary (multi)touch screen devices
are the current embodiment of this theory.

I'm convinced that the theory is wrong.

Having better and more powerful technology doesn't hurt anything. I'm a
huge fan of the smaller, integrated, and more powerful devices. Software
written specifically with mobile users in mind does improve the
potential for productivity. These technological improvements, however,
make the underlying problem more apparent.

The challenge of getting things done when mobile has little to do with
the capabilities of the mobile platform, and more with the way people
think about and plan work when mobile. Not only is this hugely
frustrating to users, but technological capability that people can't use
threatens the ongoing development and adoption of new technology.

Using Mobile Technology More Effectively
----------------------------------------

The solution, here, I think is two-fold:

Fully Integrated Applications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's develop integrated applications, not just integrated devices with
different applications. Just as we didn't need separate devices for
every mobile function: telephony, music playing, book reading, mobile
internet, and so forth. We don't need different applications for every
function: calendaring, messaging, email, contact management, notes,
reading, and so forth.

At the very least applications need to be highly interoperable, so that
users can send data between application functions easily, and
synchronize data back to desktop and web portals seamlessly.

Task Planning Strategies for Mobile Productivity
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I don't think that the "user stories" for mobile technology are really
fully developed, and as a result any interaction with a mobile device
that isn't responsive (i.e. there's an alert of a new event, and people
respond to it,) is either "twiddling nobs" (i.e. non productive,) or
entertainment focused (i.e. playing music, video, or opening a book.)
Perhaps that's enough for some uses, but these this kind of workflow
covers a small percentage of what people do with computers.

If mobile technology is going to replace a general purpose laptop, ever,
even in limited situations, we need to figure out how to work in
different ways. I know that I am loosing a great deal of time, when I'm
using my phone switching between the notes app, the reader, the task
list, and the calender. This task switching gets in the way of doing
things to a much larger extent than similar behavior does when using a
conventional computer. I would even posit that, *the cost of context
switching is inversely related to the size of the interface.*

Better application integration will help this, but I think the real
solution is providing a method for people to organize their mobile time
more effectively. The task list that we build for ourselves when we're
doing "conventional" work (i.e. things that we need to remember to do,
open projects, open issues,) aren't particularly useful or usable when
we're looking at a tablet or a phone. If we don't know *what* we ought
to be doing, it doesn't matter what the device or software is capable of
in theory.

There are probably a dozen or more solutions to this problem, but here's
my first stab at it. What if there was a way to "forward tasks" to
ourselves when we're on the run, but have a few moments? We all loose
time waiting in queues, or waiting for trains, and these seem like ideal
phone times. If we had a way to queue things for ourselves, so we could
spend the time *doing something*. Even better, would be software that
would not only collect and display the queue but would also connect with
the application where whatever needed to be done was and then record the
results and send the back to our desktops when we were done.

[[Thoughts\|discourse]]?

