===============
More Caf Please
===============

.. post:: 2008-01-23
   :author: tychoish

I really need to turn my "introspection" tag into a "journal" tag. This
is of course meaningless if you read tychoish on the LJ, but no matter.
It's on my mind.

Things are continuing apace in tycho land.

My grandmother continues to hobble along reasonably well considering the
truly impressive brace thing on her leg.

I got a little bit of knitting done. I figure that I'm about 40 minuets
of good knitting time away from finishing the part of the neck shaping
that happens before the

I realized another `thing I've
forgotten <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/things-ive-forgotten-to-pack/>`__
is the pattern for the last little bit of the first sleeve on the
`Morocco sweater <http://tychoish.com/2007/12/casbah/>`__. Alas. I might
get to the back of the neck steek today, And I think I should be done
with the body by the time I head home, if all goes well.

This means, that I will I'm once again several sleeves away from a
couple of new sweaters. Sigh. It'll be nice to do sleeves in their
proper season, I think. But when I get done with these sleeves, I'll
only have one sweater's worth of yarn left, and it's a plain sweater: my
next batch of yarn is on backorder. So if I do that, I'll be working on
socks and hats and the like for the rest of my stay (which isn't that
long, so we dont' have to worry about me being too prolific on
non-sweater projects.)

My goal of getting through the yarn stash is doing pretty well then.

But this isn't only a knitting update.

I finished my critique for the week on the online writer's workshop that
I participate in. I need to get a short story out for them, because
while I'm learning a lot from the experience of being a critic, the
entire experience is lacking as it is. I find that a lot of stories have
really poor openings. Some are cliched, but most just start too soon,
and I hate the feeling of flogging deceased equines. But it's good
practice, and the better and faster I can be at reading these stories,
the happier I'll be.

My todo list struggles seem to be really working for the moment. One of
the problems I have with digital todo lists is that it's really easy to
make them too long range, and even with a great GTD app like
`OmniFocus <http://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omnifocus/>`__, it's
still hard to separate the things you'd like to get done this year, with
the things that really need to get done tomorrow. I don't have a good
answer, but I'm installing the `todo.txt <http://todotxt.com/>`__
scripts again, and we'll see what comes of it.

Anyway, I'm going to get to doing things, and I'm sure I'll find
something to post later...

Onward and Upward!

