=============================
My Thoughts on Reading are...
=============================

.. post:: 2007-11-15
   :author: tychoish

...mostly that I don't do it enough.

I'm about 20 pages from the end on Samuel Delany's Babel-17 novel, and I
have to confess that I don't entirely get it, but I'm enjoying it quite
throughly. I'm also, thankfully not worried about groking it in its
fullest. This is a book that I expect to reread a number of times, and a
book that I think will add an interesting dimension to a class
discussion about linguistic relativism, so I suspect I'll get plenty of
chances to revisit this text.

Despite my failure to grok the book entirely it's been a good learning
experience. Delany is a great writer. Really great. At the same time,
this is a pretty structurally straightforward book, and there isn't
literary experimentalism to get in the way of the plot or the
characters, and that's the way I like it. That's what I like so much
about science fiction.

Anyway, I really like reading, and particularly at times like this,
where I'm sort of scattered brained and dealing with a lot of demands on
my time and energy reading fiction can be really good for getting focus
and inspiration back, when the getting seems hard. It's a shame, then,
that I don't read nearly as much as I might like to. It always seems
like the internet or knitting or writing or spinning or academic work
gets in the way, but that's foolish. Really foolish.

After I finish this Delany, I have a Tiptree to read, but it might be
time to read a more recent Melissa Scott book. We shall see what I grab
for.

