==========
N Plus One
==========

.. post:: 2008-11-20
   :author: tychoish

I'm finally getting my `list of things to do with
linux <http://tychoish.com/posts/production-ready/>`__ that I've
heretofore done with OS X down to only a few items. I need to set up
`xampp <http://www.apachefriends.org/en/xampp.html>`__ for the web
development work I use and for hosting my local wiki, and I need to sort
out something with RSS reading (which isn't so much a technological
problem as it is a fact that I'm majorly behind and disorganized on
RSS). Everything else is either a matter of linux programs being a
little rough around the edges (pidgin? really?) or additional things
that I never could do with my laptop (eg. fileservering for the house,
dyndns, etc.)

At the moment, however, my biggest "linux transition" thought is a
workflow issue. Basically I'm thinking about how I'm incorporating both
a dual monitor setup and a laptop into my workflow. Because of the way
that `Awesome <http://awesome.naquadah.org/>`__ works there's a sense in
which both of my monitors really can function as two different
computers. Not to mention the fact that I also have this really rather
awesome (and capable) laptop.

My first approach to using two monitors was to put them right next to
each other, and I arranged my windows such that I put half of all the
tasks on each screen an what I found, was that I used the "middle" half
of both screens" almost exclusively, rather than balancing my computing
evenly across both screens.

So my second strategy has been to position the screens so that I have a
primary screen dead in front of my keyboard, and then a secondary screen
on my right at a forty five degree angle. The primary screen has things
like writing projects (work, fiction, blogging, research) and my email
and IM client on the main screen. Then "refrence" things on the second
screen, so like the web browser lives there, my notebook (also a
web-browser, but to a local site), IRC and microblogging, and the
Calendar app all love over there. I'm not sure that this is totally
ideal yet, but it's a good start.

As an aside, I'd love to hear how people with more than one monitor make
use of all the extra screen space. Particularly Awesome users.

My second issue/question is that my desk is too small to hold both the
new monitors and the laptop, so I tend to have the laptop stacked off to
the side and take it down when I want to go in the other room or do
something that's still mac-centric. I wonder how people who have two
distinct computers (laptops and desktops) deal with and make use of
having two computers. The data synchronization isn't an issue, I think I
have that pretty well sorted out, it's the work-flow issue. Particularly
in a couple of weeks when the computers are functionally equivalent.

Thoughts? Suggestions? I can't fathom that this is something that
people, far smarter and more creative than I, haven't already solved. I
can't wait to hear it!

Onward and Upward!

