================
Nature : Nurture
================

.. post:: 2004-09-17
   :author: tychoish

I have a couple bits of news/theories for the "Beyond John Wayne"
category but I'll keep them brief in favor of other forthcoming TealArt
posts.

First off this Beyond John Wayne category is more than a year old now.
I'm looking back at this last year plus and thinking, "my god, I've
learned and changed a lot." This gender studies/masculinity project
thing that I'm forever enthralled with has gone from being a "what does
it mean to be gay in the world today, to a what does it mean to be a man
in the world today, to a combination of the two: this is the whole
"Beyond John Wayne" idea, that it's possible to be a man outside of "the
man box" to some sort of weird where I am now place. I think more
reflection on this transition is defiantly required, but that's fairly
low on my list right now.

Having given it a suitable breathing period, I'm going to go back and
edit/rewrite/revise my proposal for the *Affinity Story Project* (I
really need a better name, don't I?) and see what I can come up with.
It's something concrete and something real, and it feels good to finally
be working on something like this.

The third, and probably most important reason why I made this post is to
express the following theoretical statement (which in typical form is a
question) that I scribbled on the back of a paper in class today:

*Is the claim that the differences between men and women are
**natural**, oppressive because "nature" is used as a tool for
justifying the non-egalitarian distribution of opportunity and
resources, or because of the nature/nurture dichotomy/opposition is
inherently gendered.*

Actually I wrote "is nature oppressive because it's a (tool for)
justifying "different but equal" or because of the nature/nurture
dichotomy/opposition." With the parenthetical written in the super-text.
You be the judge of what makes more sense and is more coherent.

I'd explain more, but I'm not really in the mood for answers now.

