===========
Neuromancer
===========

.. post:: 2008-10-03
   :author: tychoish

Yesterday I posted a note about what I've been reading and about Melissa
Scott's `The
Jazz <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/all-the-jazz-thats-fit-to-print/>`__,
and in it I realized that I talked about William Gibson's
`Neuromancer <http://www.amazon.com/Neuromancer-William-Gibson/dp/0441569595/tychoish-20>`__
in comparison to Melissa's book and I didn't get into my thoughts on the
Gibson.

Which is awkward, because it's such an important book and I didn't like
it very much. Although Gibson writes very beautiful prose, I had a hard
time maintaining interest in the book. Maybe this is a feature of the
cyberpunk sub-genre's difficulty aging--but that seems too simple. While
I think the more rigorously derived from the future a piece of SF is,
the harder it ages [1]_

I asked `Chris <http://www.cgkreality.com/>`__, "Isn't this supposed to
rock world, I feel very unrocked," and he said (ever helpfully) that
"maybe my world was already rocked." Which it might be, I think this is
another angle on the "it's past it's moment." And unlike some cyberpunk
which engages issues of identity, the meaning of "reality," government
intervention in people's lives, and other interesting issues, the major
argument in Neuromancer amounted to "Duuudes cyberspace, it's like
drugs..."

I joke, but there was a lot of drug use in the book, and while it gave
Gibson the space to write some really trippy scenes, which really were
beautiful, beyond that I was unimpressed. And probably as a result I
didn't find myself not particularly invested in the characters.

I'd be interested in hearing what your thoughts are on the book, it's
role in the science fiction canon, and about cyberpunk in general. I'd
love to hear what you have to say.

Thanks for reading.

Onward and `Upward <http://www.criticalfuture>`__!

.. [1] I think this is an observer problem, because if you set a book 100
   years in the future, and 5 years later it becomes clear that it's not
   going to happen that way, everyone notices. If you set things 1000
   years in the future it's easier for people to get that it's all
   allegory, anyway. Nevertheless I think this is a challenge of SF that
   tries to be less fantastic.
