=============
Never Swatch!
=============

.. post:: 2007-11-30
   :author: tychoish

Having sworn of socks on anything other than DK/worsted weight yarn, I
have a little bit of a sock yarn stash to burn off.

Ok I only have one skein.

It's really pretty and I bought it while visiting `Sheri at the Loopy
Ewe. <http://www.theloopyewe.com/sheri/>`__ a few months back. She's
supper cool by the way.

But the purchase was totally a moment of weakness.

It's ~400 yards of sport weight. The label says it's "Jubilee" from
*Misty Mountain Farm* in color "Ocean Wave."

Leave it to me impulse buy, *yet another skein* of teal yarn.

Anyway, so I have sock yarn to burn off.

I'm thinking of making an enterlac style *dubblemossa*. These are the
hats where they're basically a long enclosed head-sized sausage, that
you fold in on itself and it covers your ears. Usually they're stranded.
I want to do one with enterlac. the yarn's soft and it will be awesome.

No more questions now, I'll write a pattern at some point. Maybe.

So like any dutiful designer I did a guage swatch, mostly because I've
never knit with this yarn or anything like it. Super-wash can be a
little funny, and after enacting the following scene a few times I
thought it was a good idea

**tycho**: So here *(Tosses yarn)* I'm thinking of making a hat.
**FellowKnitter** *catches*: Oh this is pretty, what kinda hat.
**tycho**: A sort of enterlac/watchclock/dubblemossa sort of thing.
**FellowKnitter** *looks quizzical* **tycho**: So I'm thinking of
casting on, about 128 stitches using US size 3 needles, how does
that sound? **FellowKnitter**: That's a lot, did you do a gauge
swatch. **tycho**: No. I'm asking you. **FellowKnitter**: Don't be a
dumbshit, do a gauge swatch **tycho**: whatever, grumble.

So I did, and I got the very nice gauge of 8 stitches to the inch.
Multiplied it by 22, after measuring my head (23.5 inches incase any of
you want to make me a hat) and cast on (provisionally) 176 stitches. It
was a pain in the ass.

I knit two rows.

I measured the gauge: 6 stitches to the inch.

Now before you say, *tycho,* it's only two rows over a provisional cast
on, how can you be sure.

The texture of the knitting was completely different.

When I took it off the needles, the (16 pound) cat could have stood
inside of it.

Now here's for the irony. 6 stitches per inch times 22 inches equals.
You guessed it 132. Which is damn close to my original suggestion.

Just saying. Use your head and don't succumb to peer pressure.

