===========================
New Series and Site Updates
===========================

.. post:: 2007-03-05
   :author: tychoish

I remember a phase of tealart where it seemed like I was writing more
entries about what new things that we'd developed (for the site) and
what kinds of often parrellel developments ooccurred in my life. I can't
imagine that TealArt made a particularly interesting website to read at
that point. I think of it as our "young idealistic schemes." Since then,
due to a lot of things, I think we've found some more interesting things
to talk about, I've settled down with regards to my (academic) interests
and become a more reflexive knitter, and most importantly I've found a
mindset for TealArt writing that works for me. Having said that, there
have been some rather important changes to the site and my first
mini-series on productivity has basically come to a conclusion. And
thus, I've begun to think that sometimes, a good old fashioned update
post is necessary, and given that I'm on break this week; now seems like
the perfect time.

We've done a little bit of reorganization and redesign around the new
"tumble log" or "tumblog" or whatever you want to call it, the page is
located here and mirrored on the right hand sidebar of most pages of the
TealArt site. What this does is look at a host of other sites/services
that we post things and then, pulling RSS feeds in from those sites,
creates a running (tumblling) log of our activities. I was listening or
reading something that said that tumblogs worked the best when you had a
small group and a lot of randomness. That sounded the world like
TealArt, and thankfully I was able to pull together all the parts pretty
well, and there it is. While I don't think a week or so is enough time
to make a jujudgment about how well a TealArt project is going to work,
I remain hopeful. If you like the tumblog idea check out

The other thing to note in this update is the formating idea of "series"
which is of course a revival of the "column" idea that I labored (albiet
falsely) for another web-venture. The productivity series, which ran for
five or so episodes. Soon I'll post a summative post for the series,
because I think asside from future random musings is completed. I
enjoyed engauging with these ideas, as productivity particularly in the
digital age is something that I'm really interested in working towrds
perfecting; however, more than that I really enjoyed having a "column"
or some such due almost every week. It got me writing in a way that I
think is particularly helthy and useful for me.

So while I'm on break this week, in addition to reading a rather lot
about Death (for a project on psychotherapy and berevement, don't ask.
really.), I'm going to begin planning and working on the next series of
TealArt articles. To replace the productivity series, I'm going to be
putting forth articles about *Hypertext* and "new" digital (textual)
media, in terms of both consumption--reanding--and production--writing.
I've been reading Theodor Holm Nelson's *Literary Machines*, and in
combination with a renewed personal interest in fiction and in "Wikis,"
I think there's a lot to talk and think about there and I hope you'll be
interested in this... Please, also, contribute to the conversation
either via email or in the comments section.

For the record, I'd like to point out that my "new" writing projects
(productivity, and hypertext), mirror my old interests (mobile
technology, and eBoook technology.) Just saying.

For the remainder of the semester, that is until the begining of May,
I'm also going to have a series of essays related to knitting and design
at TealArt. I'll talk about what defines my current design work,
challenges I'm facing as I attempt to teach knitting, and musings on
"traditional knitting." I frequently think about TealArt as a knitting
blog, but I'm realizing that I don't post knitting content to the site
nearly enough. I hope this will help remedy the situation. These
writings, are incedently a contributing to a project that I'm working on
for school, which I might talk more about at some point, but I hope you
will enjoy them as well. Also, I remain hopeful regarding forthcoming
pictures of my knitting.

In terms of a publishing schedule, I'd look for knitting posts (with
luck) early in the week, I'm thinking Tuesday, but my scheduele on
Tuesdays is hellish, and hypertext posts on Friday or Saturday. That's
tentative. While I do expect to do a great deal of writing and planning
durring this break, I'll make no promises about what material gets
posted this week. Stay tuned!

I look forward to talking with you all more in the near future.

Cheers, tycho(ish)

