==============
New Technology
==============

.. post:: 2010-12-21
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg

I was originally going to write this post as a "reasons I don't need a
new computer," piece explaining my current setup (one laptop, a virtual
server, and a lot of bailing wire) and explaining that despite some
problems (a lack of local redundancy and small screen size) a new
computer wasn't exactly warranted. Though I wanted one, particularly
after seeing the new MacBook Air, and I've long thought about getting a
15 inch laptop as I still lament my last 15 inch machine. Since I didn't
*really* need a new machine and there wasn't a convincing reason to do
an upgrade, I was going to write about good reasons to avoid upgrading
*just 'cause*.

Clearly I failed.

Particularly, since I'm writing this post from a new laptop.

A few weeks ago I saw a very good deal on a current-model 15" Lenovo
ThinkPad (T510) with all of the specifications that I wanted: the larger
resolution screen, integrated Intel graphics and wireless, a bunch of
RAM (4g) and a 7200rpm drive. It even has a Core i7 processor (quad
proc), which was a pleasant bonus, and so I went for it.

I'm quite happy with it. Besides a great deal and in many ways an ideal
machine, I decided that being dependent on one (and only one!) system
for all work and non-work computing was probably a bad idea.
Additionally, I've wanted to reorganize the way my laptops' hard drive
partitions in a way that requires at least a short period of down time,
and a process that I didn't want to attempt without some sort of back
up.

It took me a few days to get everything sorted out on the new machine,
as it usually does, and there are some cool new things that I can do
that I have yet to get ironed out, mostly around figuring out some
virtualization technology to do *awesome* things with this system. But
for the day to day stuff, it's perfect and works just as I like.

This is the first time in several years where I've regularly used two
systems for day-to-day work, and it's the kind of thing that I've tended
to avoid as much as possible. It's just a hassle to switch between
systems in terms of getting everything synchronized. I've got a pretty
clever setup sketched out that I hope to be able to share with you all
shortly.

In the end, this might not have been an absolutely essential purchase,
but I think it was wise (in terms of the redundancy,) it makes some
interesting things possible (virtualization, more processor intensive
tasks,) and for the kinds of things I do, the extra screen space is
*very* appreciated.

I'm sure I'll write here from time to time about these things, but for
the moment: Onward and Upward!

