=========
New Geeks
=========

.. post:: 2008-12-19
   :author: tychoish

I've for some number of months started to recognize a division between
what I've been thinking of as "new" and "old" guard geeks in the open
source world. The old guard have been the linux and hardware hacker-type
people who are prone to say "GNU/Linux" and "free software" or
conversely be interested in BSD. These are people who care about plain
text files and get really invested text editors and data formats and
stuff like that. Think sys-admin. The new guard, by contrast, are web
programmer types. The Rails and Drupal folks, the web 2.0 crowd. More
jokingly, I might call this the "Perl versus PHP" dynamic, but that's
not a particularly productive comparison or breakdown.

Like all false dichotomies this one has limited descriptive power as
everyone, even the old school geeks use the Internet. Linux exists today
because of the way that Internet supported its development. None the
less I think that thinking about these new and old world geeks (as it
were) as having different interests is productive insofar as it allows
us to better understand the way that the open source is changing in the
coming years.

Part of me thinks that this has something to do with the effects of
"open source" versus "free software" debate. I've noticed that Drupal
developers almost never say "free software," even though it's a GPLv2/3
project. I say open source rather than free software, even though I'm
generally a proponent of copyleft. `I've outlined my thoughts on the
subject before in an essay on software
freedom <http://tychoish.com/posts/open-source-freedom/>`__, but I'm
pretty sure that people have different reasons for this. In any case,
judging by the prevalence of Apple laptops, it seems like the whole "we
need an open source/free software stack from top to bottom," impulse
isn't as strong that underlies a lot of the free software argument.

Another part of this shift might be the fact that proprietary operating
systems are *much better* today than they were twenty years ago. OS X is
really stable (thanks to open source) and works great (of course) with
Apple hardware, [1]_ and despite the vast unpopularity of Windows Vista
and my general disdain of the OS, technologically the NT kernel OSes
starting with version 5 (so windows 2000 and XP and even Vista) have
probably been pretty good. Or good enough at any rate.

And there's, of course, the whole web 2.0 'thing. In a lot of ways the
operating system question becomes less relevant as everything becomes
cloud-based anyway, and "freedom" or "openness" is always difficult to
judge in terms of network-based services and applications. There's the
`AGPL <http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/agpl-3.0.html>`__, but that
not withstanding I'm not sure there's a good one size fits all (hell,
I'd even take 2-3 sizes fits all) solution to software freedom, user
rights, and privacy and security for network services.

Like I said at the beginning, I don't think the new geek/old geek
(particularly with regard to open source) is totally productive, but
it's a useful starting place for a conversation that I'm very interested
in. If you have feedback, of course...

Onward and Upward!

.. [1] This might seem obvious, but I think one of the reasons that Apple's
   laptops are so successful is that by controlling the hardware as they
   can, they can get *great* battery performance and the best sleep/wake
   functionality around.
