===========================================
New Fiction Projects (thoughts on monogamy)
===========================================

.. post:: 2007-09-20
   :author: tychoish

As I'm tooling around this morning and working on getting things done,
and since as I said yesterday I finished a chapter, and need to spend
some time getting things planned out and sorted for the next bout of
writing, I'm realizing that I need to get started on another project at
some point for a number of reasons.

1. So you I can avoid getting stuck if a project sticks.

2. So that I have something when this project is done, which it's
getting closer and closer.

Knitters (among others I assume, it not being terribly original,) talk
about project monogamy. The idea begin that if you concentrate on one
project at a time, you're more likely to finish things. Typically I'm
pretty narrow minded with regards to my knitting projects, but of late I
haven't worked in this way--I think that my trials with "sleeve
knitting."

This isn't to say that fiction writing and knitting follow the same sort
of creative cycle; similar, for sure, but it's hard to translate from
one to the other. For instance, while in both there's a lot of up front
work, in fiction writing the end stage requires about as much
work/attention/time as the beginning, but in a sweater, you can think a
lot about the next project, as you're finishing the present project,
because you need to buy new yarn, and have a plan. To make matters
easier, I would point out that by the end of a project, it goes "faster"
than the beginning: you generally have the pattern memorized, anything
that can go wrong already has, so you don't have to worry about that.

The problem is that while I know I should and I want to, I'm a little
worried about distraction and "what next." Anyway...

