===================
New News (Programs)
===================

.. post:: 2005-06-10
   :author: tychoish

I'd like to take a moment to recognize the fact that there are 450
entries on this site. That's a lot. Well I suppose it could/should be
more, but I think its worth noting. It's yet another fact that draw
attention to the idea that, we've been around for a REALLY long time.
*shrug*.

I think my new computer and I have finally bonded. I think it generally
takes one trying design process to bond with a computer. Graphics, web
pages, long form prose writing, etc. Its like you need to push yourself
to some limit with the computer to be able to trust it, to know it's
limits and yours, and then it becomes easier to work with it in the
future. So I think we're there. Now all I need to do is send off the
last thing for the rebate, and I'll be really happy.

The other thing, and what I initially intended to post here about, is
the fact that, pretty much without my realizing it, Ranchero Software
released a new version of NetNewsWire, which has been my news reader of
preference. The interface is more Tiger-Esque, which is just fine by me
(now if we can only get Mac to drop this steel look on finder, we'll be
good). But the really cool thing is that it will cope with Atom feeds.
Basically it's yet another RSS, except not as simple (RSS stands for
really simple syndication.) I think it works great frankly it doesn't
matter much to me, except Blogger supports Atom and only Atom. Whereas
before, I wouldn't dedicate the time to reading Blogger powered weblogs,
because my news reader wouldn't cope with it, now my only reasoning is
pure snobbery. Blogger, like LiveJournal, Xanga, etc. tend to be too
easy for people to use, so EVERYONE gets one, which inspires *even more
people* to get them. And it's a downward spiral. I've had to put a lot
of time into getting tealart to work the way it does. Not to mention
money/work for the domain name and the hosting account, and I'd like to
think that this kind of commitment leads to a higher level of quality,
and I think this is confirmed. It doesn't matter much which program you
use, but blogs that are powered by freestanding software packages tend
to be better than website services. And I'll go ahead and lump TypePad
in with the freestanding packages, even though it's not, really. But I
digress.

In addition to the new and better version of NetNewsWire, I've also
found that Ranchero has what I think is a rather good offline blog
editor. I've seen all manner of these programs, and they tend to be
rather crappy. Now this isn't all the developers fault. It's taken a
while for the protocols that allow such offline programs to connect with
site to develop into allowing communication of enough features. But I
think everything is starting to line up. Which is a very good thing
indeed. So yeah. I've found what passes for blogging nirvana, for the
moment.

But, and I think I'll save this thought for later. Have you noticed how
so called "traditional/old" media have been fascinated with the the
development of the *"blog"*? I can't help but think that they're missing
something. Or maybe they have it all right, and it just stings, but when
ever I read or see one of those pieces, I cringe.

Anyway, Stay Tuned.

