==============================
New Knitting Project: Cardigan
==============================

.. post:: 2013-04-08
   :author: tychoish

I've mentioned that I was working on a new sweater a few months ago,
but I've neglected to post or write about the project at all. Let's
change that now:

In most respects it's just like a number of existing sweaters that
I've made: two color patterns, using a combination of mid-sized
extrapolation of Scandinavian mitten patterns, with some influence of
Turkish stocking patterns arranged in panels to convey strong vertical
lines. The yarn is Harrisville Shetland, and another unidentified
Shetland from a cone I got years ago and have now used in three
sweaters. The plan is to have a simple fisherman's-style drop shoulder
construction with a simple short crew neck color.

The plan diverges somewhat from "tychoish standard" in two respects:

The biggest change is that it's going to be a cardigan. I've never
made a cardigan that I'd call a rocking success. I can do it, but the
finishing always leaves something to be desired and it hangs funny or
flares in a way that I don't want.

The plan for finishing the cardigan opening this time around is to use
the steek (the bit that you cut open) as the facing for a hem. the
idea is minimal prep and let the yarn do its thing. For closure, I'll
do an attached i-cord band with room for buttons.

The slightly smaller change is that rather than use a hem, I used the
"purl-when-you-can-and-want-to" for bottom hem treatment. The idea is
that if you purl occasionally for the first few inches you can
counteract the tendency of knitted fabric from rolling. It's not
perfect yet, but I've not steamed it, so we'll see.

It's fun to knit so far, and I look foraward to finally conquering my
fear/avoidance of cardigans and perhaps finding the perfect lower edge
finishing approach for stranded sweaters.

Onward and Upward!
