==========
New Laptop
==========

.. post:: 2008-02-26
   :author: tychoish

Egad, I haven't written one of these posts in forever.

It seems that `apple <http://www.apple.com/>`__ released new laptops
today. I promised myself that I would wait for the next revision before
I got a new computer, my current one is old (a power pc generation mac)
and I think it struggles to keep up. I'm still running the old OS (I
have a "don't screw it up if it's working" policy) and I think that it's
*time*. Computer's wear out, and Zoe has been a virtual *dream,* but I
don't want to wear her completely into the ground. My father or
grandmother is going to get custody next, and I don't want them to get
stuck with a computer that's going to die immediately.

*tycho takes a break from writing this entry to look at the
academic/research software in the `apple software
directory <http://www.apple.com/downloads/macosx/math_science/>`__.*

So here's my updated apple prediction for the rest of the year: new
iMacs at/around WWDC, iPods in August, MacPros and MacBook Air v.2 in
August (or November) and new MacBook Con/Pros in November (maybe
August?), so the big news at WWDC will be software related, likely as
not.

As for me, I think the main decision left is, when do I make the order.
Do I order it now, because, if I'm going to do it, I might as well make
the order sooner rather than later (all things being equal, which they
are,) or do I wait a little while. One thought is that I'll wait till I
get a grad school acceptance. [1]_ On the other hand, even if fI didn't
get into graduate school, I'd still want the new computer, and now is
probably the best time to buy for the next six months.

In preparation for this, I'm going to start making lists of things to
ease the transition process. You may find these entertaining. Anyway,
despite my lack of posting I have been writing things pretty seriously
all morning. So I'll get back to that.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1] Though to be fair, I'm sort of operating like one is imminent which
   might be kind of dumb, at the same time, not without reason. The
   other celebratory thing would be to get my other (right) ear (lobe)
   pierced *finally* and get new left ear jewelry, which you know, I
   could do regardless of the computer.
