===============================
New Knitting Project: Ballstown
===============================

.. post:: 2013-02-09
   :author: tychoish

I've started a new project, much to my own surprise. After many years
of looking at the `merino/tencel blend "colrain"
<http://www.yarn.com/webs-weaving-spinning-weaving-yarns-fiber-wool-wool-blends/webs-knitting-weaving-yarns-valley-yarns-210-merino-tencel-colrain-lace/>`_
I ordered a cone of it, and have cast on a project: a plain tube using
size 0s..

I think I may be crazy. 

The thing is, I got `one of these neck tubes
<http://www.dotheextraordinary.com/SHOP/Products/BLACK-and-GRAY-REVERSIBLE-INFINITY-TUBE__BLACK-spc--and--spc-GRAY-spc-INFINITY-spc-TUBE.aspx>`_
a month or two ago, and it's the most amazing thing ever. Looks good
with most things, not weird, very comfortable, etc.

So I'm making myself one... 

I'm calling it "Ballstown" after a tune in the Sacred Harp of the same
name. The tune is named after the town in the capital region of New
York State, now known as "Ballston Spa." Why? Because I cast on 217
stitches.

It turns out, I've really rather missed plain knitting that you can
just knit on for hours without really thinking about, or can knit on
in the dark. 

One of the reasons that I've not been knitting as much recently, other
than available time is that I've found it difficult to actually wear
or use the things I knit. Sweaters, even finer weight ones are too
warm to wear inside, and not windproof enough to keep me warm outside
without substantial jacket. 

The answer is to knit finer fabrics, of course, but this has been
easier said than done, for me. Mostly I've stuck to fair isle
sweaters, which are great fun to knit, and reasonably wearable, but
difficult to knit on casually: lots to lug around, and starting to
knit something with a pattern requires some "spin up time," as you
remember where you were and what you're supposed to be doing.

In most ways this plain tube is the perfect answer to this
problem....

I'll blog more about this (or not,) as I progress.
