======================
New Workstation Trials
======================

.. post:: 2009-07-03
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: arch-linux, cyborg

Rather than bore you with minutia of my move (eg. shit, I need to get a
shower curtain; why is all my toilet paper on the moving truck; I'm
getting really sick of sitting on the floor while I wait for the moving
truck) I thought I'd talk a little bit about something that seems to
occupy a bunch of my thinking these days: how I'm setting up my
work-desktop computer. It's trivial, an on going process, and of minimal
interest to most other people.

So I think I'll make a series of it. There's this post, and another that
I've written, and a few other thoughts that I think fit in. And the
truth be told, I've been spending so much time recently packing things,
attending to chores and dealing with other *crap*, that it'll be good to
have an excuse to do some writing again.

--------------

Here's the setup: I have an iMac of contemporary vintage for a
workstation, which is of course running OS X 10.5 Leopard, by default.
Here are the challenges I found myself facing:

- OS X is a great operating system, but I'm not a mac guy anymore, much
  to my surprise. I installed quicksilver pretty early on, but the
  truth is that my head isn't shaped that way any more. The mouse
  frustrates me, and all the things that make OS X great I don't really
  use.

- All my other machines and working environments for the past while
  have been linux based, and I've basically come to the conclusion that
  having *one* environment that's shared between a large number of
  boxes is preferable to having different and unique operating
  environments.

For a long time, I got the unified operating environment by virtue of
only using one portable computer; now I just keep my laptop and desktop
the same (more or less) get a very similar result. This is probably
worth it's own post, but I was vary wary of having a work machine that
was too radically different from what I'm used to and what I use
personally.

So if I need to run Linux, there are really only three options:

1. Level OS X and just run ubuntu/debian/etc.

2. Set up a dual boot OS X/Linux system, and switch as I need to.

3. Run Linux in some sort of virtual machine environment like VM Ware or
   VirtualBox.

Option one is simple, and I liked the thought of it, but it seems like
such a waste and what if there was some mac-specific app that I wanted
to try? And it removes the option of using OS X as a back up... While
I'm no longer a mac guy, I do think that OS X's desktop environment is
superior to any non-tiling window manager for X11/Linux.

Option two works, certainly, but I hate rebooting, and in a lot of ways
option two would be functionally like option one, except I'd have less
accessible hard drive space, and I'd have to reboot somewhat frequently
if it turned out I actually needed to use both. Best and worst of both
worlds.

Option three is frustrating: virtual machines give some sort of minor
performance hit, integration between host and guest is difficult and
confusing sometimes, and guest operating stability is largely dependent
upon host operating system stability.

Ultimately I chose option three, and as I used the machine, the fact
that performance suffers a hit is totally unnoticeable, and though it
took a bunch of futzing, I think I've finally settled into something
that shows a lot of promise of working. (*Ed. note that I've got a bit
of a production lag on the blog.*)

--------------

I think that's sufficient introduction. There'll be more, don't worry.
