========================
No(r)way I&#8217;m Done!
========================

.. post:: 2006-01-12
   :author: tychoish

I'd swear off such horrible pomo title puns, but I really don't think
that's the end of it. Sorry folks.

As you might be able to guess I'm finished with the Norway sweater, that
I've been working on for most of the last month. As we don't have a
camera here quite yet, I'm not going to be able to offer you pictures,
but rest assured that pictures of this sweater, past completed projects
will be posted eventually. For the record, I haven't sewn down the
steeks (they're fastened, but I haven't cleaned them up) woven in ends,
or blocked the sweater, and I hope to have before and after pictures for
that, so stay tuned.

I'll offer a more in depth description of the final project when I have
a picture, and explain exactly what modifications I made, but right now
I'd just like to offer the lessons I've learned by finishing this
sweater, because I think that's the best way to reflect. And I like
making bulleted lists. So there.

.. raw:: html

<ul><li>

**Yarn Choice**: Cascade 220 is really great yarn and I should use it
more.

.. raw:: html

</li><li>

Don't be so egger to **mix yarn** from different manufactures (unless
it's clear they used the same mill, because even though two yarns might
look the same on the hank, if you make a sweater with them, it will be
clear that they are in fact different. Furthermore, while this isn't
entirely a bad effect, it is one which should be used with careful
consideration.

.. raw:: html

</li><li>

**The Three Halves of a Sleeving**: More of an observation than a
lesson, but I think the whole "sleeve island" concept, and the reason
why sleeves are so tedious, deals with the fact that that sleeves have
three 'halves'. The first half, goes really quickly, because the
knitting is new, the second half is a soul sucking black hole. and the
third half goes really quickly because the finish line is so close. In
honesty I think each half is pretty close to a third of the sleeve
length wise (but clearly not knitting wise, because of how most sleeves
taper), and it might surprise you that it doesn't really matter which
direction you go in. That's what I think.

.. raw:: html

</li><li>

**Back neck shaping is a good thing.** This was the first sweater that I
did that had a back neck steek, and it was a bit bothersome, but I
really really like the way that it looked and the way that it feels, so
I think this is something that I'm going to continue to insert in my
future projects. This technique allows the back of the neck to contour
to the neck a bit better, and I think the collar lays flatter as a
result, and I think if you look at mass produced sweaters, most of them
have gentle scoops in the back. And here's the cool thing. One might
think that having another steek would increase the annoying factor of
the sweater. Wrong! When I was binding off, I just three-needled
straight across the back, and treated it as one steek. It was
potentially *less* bothersome than only having one steek. So there!

.. raw:: html

</li><li>

**Make Collars Shorter**: I think I have a secrete crush on cowl necked
sweaters, and have made many of the necks of my most recent sweaters,
too long. Collars needn't be as long as the bottom hem, and in many
cases can be much shorter. If your neck is cold, put on a scarf, that's
what they're for. Sweaters become much more wearable if the collar is
less obtrusive.

.. raw:: html

</li><li>

**Keep Sleeves Wide**: The past couple of sweaters I've made have
suffered from having sleeves which are in fact too narrow at the end.
this, is I think the one ill side effect of knitting sleeves off of the
shoulders... It's too easy to get carried away with the decreases and go
to far. Tight forearms are just unpleasant and having the sleeves of
whatever you're wearing underneath bunch up there is icky. Yes, icky.
This isn't enough to keep me from making sleeves this way, but enough to
remind me to stick an extra stitch in-between each decrease on the
bottom half (third) of the sleeve. This isn't to say, that one should
avoid a rather radical decrease for the cuff (especially in cases where
corrugated ribbing is employed.), but before that point, just watch it.

.. raw:: html

</li></ul>

So there you have it.

Cheers, sam

ps. circa 10:30pm: I just finished blocking the sweater, and it's my new
favorite sweater. it's a bit big, which I have to keep reminding myself
is better than a bit small, and since I don't really swatch properly,
It's better to err slightly on that side than not. Anywhoo... It's
really really nice. Full report forthcoming still

