========
not dead
========

.. post:: 2008-03-27
   :author: tychoish

Dear friends,

Today has been a good day. Things regarding the dance experience have
continued to improve, such that over tea this afternoon we realized
that, the way things have turned out was the best possible thing that
could have happened.

So good, in fact, that these kinds of things don't happen outside of
movies. Except they have.

The truth is, that this whole mess has been nagging at us for a year,
maybe a year and a half. And though I'm not sure we have "closure," we
have resolution. This is good enough, and it's as if a great weight has
been lifted from our shoulders. A weight that we didn't know we had.

It's hard on you when your stress release mechanism, and one of your
outlets for physical activity become cooped by angst and stress, and
it's been so long.

So I'm happy.

One of the things that we did a few weeks ago, was that we held a ritual
burning of some objects that were symbolic of some of the more stressful
parts of the recent past.

And now there's resolution.

So we think (and I support this) that I need to have some sort of
positively focused ritual to encourage a positive outcome to this
graduate school application. I'm thinking about what I can do, but I'm
not sure. Seems like the place to start is with some serious cleaning
and reorganization of my crap. I have clothes to donate, paper to
recycle, and so forth. Cleansing seems like a good place to start.

I'm also considering ditching tealart as a project because I think I can
run everything that I could possibly ever want to do off of
tychoish.com, and I'd rather not further divide my time/energy. Maybe.
I'm not sure. Unless I can find a good executive editor. But I have to
keep it around for email purposes for a year or two anyway, so I don't
know. It's just a thought.

If anyone has a good suggestion for a ritual some such, I'd be willing
to hear it.

In other news, I replied to a lot of email messages on
`ravelry <http://www.ravelry.com>`__, I'm sorry that I took so long to
do this, but it felt really good to get all these messages out to people
who had written really kind notes. Also I got more than a little bit of
encouragement to work on getting my patterns written and ready for sale
and distribution. There's nothing to encourage you to be creative and
productive than people asking for ways to give you money. This is *the*
problem to have. So the end result is that I have a lot of work to do
and I'm very much looking forward to the opportunity to do it.

That's what I have right now. I'll be back tomorrow, in a less
reflective sort of way. Be well everyone, that's an order.

Onward and Upward!

