===========
Not Writing
===========

.. post:: 2008-11-25
   :author: tychoish

I've had `one hell of a week <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/so-tired/>`__,
and at least somewhat understandably, I haven't been writing very much
this past week. Which is really odd for me because I'm *always* writing.
While the cause of this vacation from writing was acute and
understandable, this has led me to think about the role of my writing in
my day to day life, and while it's depressing to write about not writing
while NaNoWriMo is on, I think it's worthy fodder for the blog.

When I decided to set aside academe for a while the desire to write
flooded back, and in a lot of ways, the fact that I'm reasonably
productive in writing fiction has made the fact that I'm not in school
much easier for me. At this point in my life, school (and research) is
about playing with novel ideas and methodologies, and while on the
surface the social sciences and science fiction writing are dissimilar,
the truth is that the fiction writing and the social science work draws
from the same well. As it were.

Similarly, now that I'm not in school, this blog is an outlet for the
kinds of things that might have percolated out in classroom discussions
and writing assignments, and keeping this blog flowing is really
meaningful and helpful. Truth be told, if I don't have a chance to write
in the blog at least once a week, I find that my thinking becomes
somewhat disjointed and disorganized, and I have have a harder time
keeping track of projects and ideas. Now I'm not saying "if you're
having trouble with your thinking, blogging will help," but rather that
**my** thinking and blogging have become linked and interconnected.

So the end result is that without my usual writing has left me feeling
sort of distracted and at loose ends.

Thankfully, this past weekend I was able to carve a little bit of time
out for myself and get some work done. This is good for the bottom line
as I was able to do some day-job work, and good for the soul because I
was able to get organized and clear my mind. One of the good things
about my current situation, is that because my day-job is writing
related in one very real sense even if I don't write a page of fiction
on a given day *I'm still a writer*. Weird.

Anyway, good luck to anyone out there doing NaNo, I'll try and post one
more writing related post this month, and then I'll just write, and
resist the temptation to wax philosophical.

Onward and Upward!

