=========================
Novel Writing in November
=========================

.. post:: 2008-11-04
   :author: tychoish

When going to graduate school became "someday later" rather than
"someday soon," one of the things I promised myself that I'd do is
dedicate more of my time to fiction writing, which I always seemed to
cast aside in favor of more seemingly important academic goals. Well not
any more. So I have this fiction blog, which I talk about (not nearly?)
enough called `Critical Futures <http://criticalfutures.com/>`__ which
is part of my ongoing struggle/effort to write and edit my fiction. And
I'm writing another novel-ish project that will probably--but no
promises--end up on CF in several months.

When people ask me "what do you do," I say "I'm a writer," which is
true, not just because I've got a novel going on in my head (and who
doesn't?) but because my day-job is also as a writer, so it doesn't feel
so fake, but when I say "a writer," I almost always think of space ships
and distant outposts of human civilization, and not web technology. Not
that I dislike the internet or the software that makes it go, but
because the space ships are probably the most important/meaningful (to
me) things things that I write.

In November, answering "What do you do?" (write.) "What are you
writing?" (a *novel*) seems much less remarkable because of NaNoWriMo.

In the past I've been bitter about NaNo, sometimes because I've not been
in a place where I can get started, or because I feel like it's teaches
the wrong lesson about novel-length writing, or whatever. This year, I'm
bitter. To each their own, I say. I'm not participating because I have a
project at a crucial stage, I feel like the biggest objective of
NaNoWriMo isn't "get a lot of writing done," but rather "prove that
almost everyone is capable of sitting down and writing a book length
thing, if they can get through the crap." And I know this. I also know
that I can write at NaNo-like speeds should I need to.

But.

I am going to, for the month of November, take a brief reprieve from my
"don't write about your writing on your blog" rule, and for the benefit
of NaNoWriMo spirit write a little bit about a few writing related
topics. I'll be writing other things as well like linux and open source
and knitting, but I think it'll be cool to reflect a bit on Critical
Futures and my current project, and some stuff about my writing process.
Because that's what I have.

How many of you out there are doing NaNo? For the first time? If you
write novels in some other way?

