=================================
Of Cooking, Mixtures, and Milieus
=================================

.. post:: 2007-07-18
   :author: tychoish

`Of Cooking, Mixtures, and
Milieus <http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2007/07/09/of-cooking-mixtures-and-milieus/#comments>`__:

What is at issue here is that the attractors defining
subject-positions are never simply a matter of the individual
occupying these positions, but are rather the result of ongoing
processes of individuals in relation to one another, such that a
change in subject position is not simply a matter of the individual
decision, but of the ongoing processes by which the subject is
produced as a subject in relation to other subjects. What I am
trying to think through in this connection is the issue of the
ontological status of social structures or systems. It is all well
and good to study social structures after the fashion of Saussure or
Levi-Strauss as a structure, but what, ontologically, are these
structures? A language, for instance, is not in any particular
individual. Language, as it were, is not up to me. Yet language
nonetheless could not exist without individuals. It only exists in
and through the individuals that use the language. As such, language
only exists through the ongoing operations of language in its use by
speakers. Ontologically there is nothing but individuals, nothing
but bodies, yet certain relations of feeback emerge among these
individuals such that language takes on an emergent reality.

(from `Larval Subjects <http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com>`__.)

This, I think explains why I'm interested in the things I'm interested
in. Everything fits together after a while. It's nice when that happens.

