==================
Of Email Filtering
==================

.. post:: 2008-07-24
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: organization, cyborg

Email is a beast. While I would say that I don't--at the moment--get a
huge amount of email, I get enough that if I didn't have a system in
place for dealing with the email, it would be completely useless. I've
not written about it here, but I have spent some time over the past few
weeks working out how to replace a good but faltering system with a much
more robust set up. Here's the story:

(*Warning*, this is **really** nerdy)

First off this kind of really robust email solution isn't for everyone,
and there are a couple of unique factors in my setup that require the
extra effort of this system. First of all, I need something that works
because I *hate* the phone. If someone wants to get a hold of me, I'd
much rather they write an email than call. If I don't respond to email,
people might call, or if I'm feeling overwhelmed by email, I might tell
them to call. Both should be avoided. There are also a score of other
reasons: I moderate a pretty high volume listserv, I need to send email
from several different addresses *and* names/identities, and I have some
pretty specific filtering needs, not to mention the fact that I have a
number of pretty old email addresses that require a really powerful spam
filter. I'm going to cover both what I used to do, and what I do now.

**I *used to*:** Collect a number of different email addresses into one
gmail account and then check that email with either
`POP3 <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post_Office_Protocol>`__ or
`IMAP <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Message_Access_Protocol>`__.
Gmail with IMAP was and is a great thing. With it, I could do a lot of
in gmail-filtering and then have all of that just show up in my mail
program. The problem is that there aren't really good offline imap
clients. Things don't sync right. Mail.app can't efficiently cope with
new mail that *doesn't* arrive in the inbox. You have to screw around
with mail.app to get the multiple email identities to work. Mail.app
wasn't incredibly stable (though it has, to be fair gotten more stable.)
Also mail.app's filtering doesn't work *splendidly* with IMAP.

Having an email program that works consistently and effectively is the
key to keeping it under control.

A lot of my problems with this set up could surely be solved by using
POP rather than IMAP, but after a year or so with IMAP (and gmail) I
feel like the combination of the back up and having this account be
useable and web-accessible is really ideal. `I
promised <http://tychoish.com/posts/long-hands>`__ a post here on
backup, and while I also can't get into this here, I'm *through* with
having my own machine be the only copy of important emails.

So what to do?

- Filter the hell out of my gmail account so that everything lands
  pretty much where it would need to so I can find it several months
  from now. `Somewhere on this
  page <http://www.g04.com/misc/GmailTipsComplete.HTML>`__ is a list of
  all the funky boolean operators that gmail allows.

- Forward email out in chunks (so the lists get forwarded to one place,
  all of my frequent blog-related correspondents to another,
  moderation) to different addresses on my web-server that include 15
  character random strings).

- This is actually a really sneaky way of passing gmail's filtering
  downstream, and is otherwise a red hearing. I think however, that I
  could have probably eliminated the number of email addresses at play
  here by using "plus addresses" and eliminate the next, but it's not a
  huge deal.

- Funnel all these things the forwarded email to a holding email
  address that automatically deletes everything after a week. This is a
  short term backup, if I accidentally delete something or whatever.

- Rather than use gmail's built in forwarding, I made a filter that
  searches for another, longer random string in all the email. If it
  *doesn't* find this (which I suspect it never will,) it forwards to
  my "home" email address. Again this isn't a public email address.

  Time out, so what we have here. is gmail sorting forwarding two copies
  of each email to two different addresses, at once. All the email is sent
  to one address, and the second address depends on how gmail is filtering
  the email.

- Set up `procmail <http://www.procmail.org/>`__ locally to filter
  based on the random character string from the second step.

- Do some additional procmail filtering (which I think, as I figure it
  out, I'll start to do more here, with and use
  `geektool <http://projects.tynsoe.org/en/geektool/>`__

- Read messages with `mutt <http://www.mutt.org/>`__, because it sucks
  less than anything else

- Write messages with `textmate <http://macromates.com/>`__

- Send mail using `msmtp <http://msmtp.sourceforge.net/>`__

And that's about it. The getting it setup was the really hard part now
all I have to do is use it, and everything lands where it should. I
think functionally this is pretty damn good. It might be preferable to
get something that isn't in situations when I don't have my laptop with
me oraccesable. I read something about using something like rsync to
handle mail box delivery. Might git work as well? I'm not sure. But
that's another battle for another day.

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!
