=============
of the system
=============

.. post:: 2009-02-11
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg

Systems. This is an extension of exploratory writings about information
management, and related ideas. When I talk about "systems," I mean
whatever technological or intellectual methods we use to store
information and get work done. If you use Microsoft Outlook and Word
with an Access database for citation management, that's a *system*, what
I've hacked together for myself with git, BibTeX, emacs, LaTeX,
org-mode, and Markdown is a system. There are others.

Many are pretty bad, as computer tools are designed with a task in mind,
and the truth of the matter is that what most of us need isn't exactly
what they do. With a few exceptions. Like a lot of people use Excel but
most of us use to make *lists* of tabular data, but few of us use it to
store numbers, let alone do any sort of calculations with that
data. [1]_ And lets not get started talking about Microsoft Word [2]_ or
any of the myriad of task management organizational software packages.

So when I say "the system" I'm really talking about that magic step
between the world your trying to represent in some sort of software
application. And we all do some crazy stuff here, like scheduling
appointments to manage tasks, or using a system of filters and secret
email addresses to take notes. Not that I've done either of those
things. *Ahem*

This set of practices and informal logical rules are interesting, not
intrinsically but insofar as they are at the heart of the human-computer
(cyborg?) interaction. While this isn't specifically a problem of open
source/free software/hacking, thinking about cyborg-issues dovetail with
the software-freedom ethic of *knowing your technology*: so it makes
sense.

Playing around with different systems, is *one of those things I do*,
and have done for a while, but it's something that I try to avoid.
Because it takes a lot of time, it gets in the way of *getting things
done*, and while I derive some perverse pleasure in it, I like to keep
from being *quite so meta*. But the sad truth is that as we learn about
new tools, as technology develops, as our projects develop, as we learn
more about ourselves and our work-flows systems need to change.

Sometimes this is as simple as moving some files around (changing the
informal logic) or getting a new system and importing data. Sometimes
it's more intense.

My blogging about `org-mode <http://www.org-mode.org>`__ recently, is as
part of one of these system changes. I'd been using a private wiki for
most of the last year, and while I really liked the system, it got to be
non-trivial to adapt he system (my internal representation the
organization of the files) to add content to the wiki in a way that made
sense. Maybe other people are a bit better at this than I am, but after
many weeks of just *not touching* the files, I realized that I needed a
better system. So I'm trying something else. It's a good thing. Not to
happen casually, though. The good thing that happens when you do a
"system review," is you get a chance to clear out cruft bad or
antiquated logic from your system, and that's almost always a good
thing.

I'll be in touch.

.. [1] I'm speaking generally rather than specifically. I know lots of
   people use excel for what it was intended for, and maybe you've
   worked with different people than I have, but I'd say the vast
   majority of the spreadsheets that I deal with mostly have text in
   them.

.. [2] It's a document preparation tool. For laying out shorter documents.
   It doesn't have a lot of (good) support for structured writing, and
   it provides functionality for displaying and formatting your text,
   but it's sort of limited along the lines of things that help writing
   (search capabilities, notes management, block folding, and so forth)
