================================================
Oh My God, or, \xC3\xACHoly Fucking Shit\xC3\xAE
================================================

.. post:: 2003-11-28
   :author: tychoish

I'm visiting family for the holiday, and you know what that means? Cable
TV (and lots of food, and family visiting, of course, but we'll leave
that entry for later.)

Anyway, with thanksgiving being a football holiday, we've been reduced
to watching make over shows. We caught a Trading Spaces (there's a 48
hour marathon going on, so tune in, if your interested.) which was an
interesting experience, and I watched a Queer Eye, because I find gay
guys acting unabashedly nelly, very cute and entertaining.

The actual content of the shows are kind of blah. I mean it's a great
idea and all, and I was really just trying to watch the gayness in the
whole ordeal. But, one thing that we all (the family) found entertaining
was that when ever someone sees the changes they say "Oh My God,"
accenting the ëmy' about four times in a high voice. "Oh, my GOD!" "Oh
MY god!" "OH my God!" and so forth.

I mean come on. What kind of self respecting straight guy says "oh my
god" six times on camera. For that matter, what kind of gay guy doesn't
say "HFS" (as my father so tactfully put it), at least once be for the
"oh my gods start?"

And the only thing I can think of is this scene from the forth of fifth
UK Queer as Folk when there's a surprise party for Vince's (Michael from
the American version) 30th birthday part, except he knows it's a
surprise party. It's at Stuart's (Brain) house, and Vince's boyfriend or
pack of friends (boyfriend = David/Cameron and friends = Alexander/Emmit
and Ted) are taking him to Stuart's but Vince knows about it, so for at
least ten minutes Vince is saying "Oh, my GOD!" "Oh MY god!" "OH my
God!" in an attempt to sound authentic when he fakes surprise at his
party.

In the next scene Stuart cornerës him and says "howëd you know." It was
priceless. Having said all that, I'm probably remembering it all
differently, but in any case…

I continue to maintain my opinion that its generally harmless and a
great deal of fun. I did hear a lot of "lets make your bedroom a
sanctuary," and "it feels like a whole new me," which was too touchy
feely. But then I'm in this "embrace your labels, and make them work for
you, instead of working for your labels" phase right now, so it's all
good.

