================
On Binge Writing
================

.. post:: 2009-01-20
   :author: tychoish

I have a tendency toward binge writing, it's true. Also, as a
"professional writer," (of sorts, saying that still makes me giggle) I
write a lot. Even on days when I'm feeling pretty lackluster, I probably
write a total of 2,500 to 3,000 words a day, and on days when I'm
feeling better I suspect the total gets closer to 5,000. It's not all
*productive* work, always, and it's certainly not all fiction
words, [1]_ but one of my guiding philosophies as a writer is to "keep
words flowing."

This is to say, that the act of continually committing words to
proverbial paper is more important than the words that you write.
Writing, for me, is an experimental act. I try a bunch of shit out and
hope that I can look back at what I've done and decide what works and
what doesn't in retrospect. It's hard to experiment without data, and
hard to let the editing process do it's job without content. Also, I
take the opinion that "getting momentum" is the hardest part of any
productive/effective process. Once you've got a head of steam, creative
work is easier. Long(er) time readers of this site will certainly
recognize this approach.

So I write a lot, and as I settle into a work rhythm and come to grips
with the fact that I'm unconditionally an adult (not, student-adult, not
adult-like but just another 20-something guy who writes a lot,) I've
been trying to figure out how to regulate fiction projects and fiction
writing as part of the "what I do." How to balance fiction writing with
other projects, how to carve time out for fiction [2]_, how to nurture
that process, and other *stuff* related being a fiction writer. [3]_

When I was writing fiction in high school, I had a pretty religious
"thousand words a week," rule that I almost always accomplished, and
since then I've generally stuck to the "thousand words a day," when
there aren't other major commitments, and no less than a thousand words
a week when writing time has a major conflict (like day jobs, or
school). For the last 4-6 months I've taken the same approach, and while
I've been moderately successful, I don't think that I've been successful
enough. There are entire weeks when I haven't written very much if
anything, and even though I have time, I don't often use the time
particularly effectively.

Maybe it's a result of being *too* flexible, but I often find myself
falling into the following trap: I'll have a few hours, and a number of
things to do, ongoing projects for work, a few personal projects of some
importance, and fiction, and I'll realize that I don't have enough time
to be able to write 1,000 words of fiction, so I just spend the time on
other projects. Which is kind of backwards logic, I have the time, but
because I don't have "the ideal amount" of time, I forgo it entirely.

That's kind of dumb. The past few days, rather than just set a somewhat
idealistic goal of what I want to get done, I've set a range, and a hard
"maximum goal." So rather than "try and write 1,000 words," the goal has
become to "write a page or two and *never* more than 600 words (on one
project)." I'm not sure if it's *working*, but less than 600 words is
*manageable*, it's enough finish a novel or two in a year, and I suspect
that my weekly word averages will be a bit higher, though I'm not
particularly good about tracking word counts (and I should be).

So, it seems like, I'm trending away from being a binge writer, at least
from fiction. Which is a really weird mode for me. I'm not particularly
in the business of giving writing advice, but if you think this kind of
advice would be good for you, then please consider it, otherwise, that's
what I'm up to.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1] I've done 3-5k of fiction words in a day, but only once: the
   winter/holiday break of my junior of high school, I wrote something
   absurd, like 25,000 words in a novel. I've never managed to duplicate
   that and I'm not sure that I'd want to, really.

.. [2] One of the biggest challenges for "wannabe writers" (an identity that
   I gladly claim) is "finding time to write," amidst all of the
   challenges of life: chores, relationships, employment, family, sleep,
   and so forth. I concur with the theory that if you want and need to
   write, you can almost always find a way to make time to write.
   Nevertheless there *are* many time related challenges for writing:
   finding sustained time to dedicate to fiction, finding a way to
   efficiently do *everything else* that needs doing.

.. [3] I've always found my relationship to the identity of "being a
   (fiction) writer" somewhat difficult. I don't have formal training as
   a writer (outside of general liberal arts background, and a very,
   loose-y goose-y writing education in college which consisted mostly
   of feminist history and political science classes, and I actively
   avoided creative writing and English classes. Anymore, I feel my
   science fiction writing to be an outgrowth and alternative expression
   of academic and scholarly interest's/projects, which I think further
   complicates this.
