============
On Frugality
============

.. post:: 2009-09-25
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: politics, economics

I've been thinking, a little, recently about frugality. `Cast
On <http://www.cast-on.com/>`__ finished a series earlier in the summer
about frugality and consumption, and I've been talking with people in a
couple of different contexts who think about their own consumption
habits (of meat and other comestibles, of material things, of cars and
transportation, and so forth) as political acts, in one capacity or
another, and I think this all deserves some more extended reflection on
my part.

Just to be clear, I think it would be safe to classify myself as a
"frugal person." I'm pretty simple in my attitudes and my consumption
habits. I have stuff, more stuff, probably, than I actually need. I also
buy things that I think are almost certainly luxuries. But I'm sort of
minimal about the things I have and I'm pretty good about making sure
that when I'm done with something, its either unusable by all of
humanity or goes on to someone who can make better use of it.

Largely I think of this as a personal quirk. Having a bunch of stuff is
sometimes anxiety producing. While many knitters enjoy buying yarn,
frankly it makes me jittery, unless my "stash" of yarn is pretty small
and I'm actively knitting a lot. Also, as a writer, and a
technologist-type, the things I do "for fun," mostly involve sitting
behind a computer and typing furiously, so while computer stuff is
probably my largest "luxury expense," I'm not particularly guilty about
it, and lord knows I use a lot of computer stuff.

And beyond this, I tend to think of frugality as being an extened form
of common sense. Finding the shortest way to work, finding the best way
to get the most nutrition and pleasure from the food you buy, finding
the best way to use old computers, using yarn efficiently, and so forth.

Now, I'm well aware that `common sense is a culturally
constrained <http://gabriellacoleman.org/blog/?p=1433>`__ and all, but
that aside, I'm unsure if frugality constitutes a political statement,
or a political act. Refusing to participate in consumer society on the
grounds of a frual-ethic is admirable, and I think a sane way to
approach the world, but I've often found myself thinking that acting
against superstructural cultural phenomena is the kind of thing that
isn't exactly something that starts at home. I mean, changing your own
habits is a good thing, because it's likely to make you more happy,
healthy, and economically resilient; nevertheless, I think to constitute
a political act, "working against consumption" would require
contributing to efforts that create viable opportunities for other
people.

So then, politics are what happens when you get together with a lot of
people and do something, not what happens when you're at the store. I
think, at least.

I'm not sure if this logic holds up either, but it's a start...

The world is a weird place sometimes.

