========================
On Not Being a Programer
========================

.. post:: 2008-12-26
   :author: tychoish

This post is very much in my vein of "tycho talks about what its like to
be a geek that doesn't really programmer," posts. Because I don't really
fancy myself much of a programmer, I often have a hard time explaining
the kinds of things that I do out side of saying "I write fiction," or
"I work with web developers," or "I help people with websites," or "I
write blogs about technology," which while factual in the strictest
sense, is not a particularly honest capture of "what I do." Or what I
think of as my secret superpower.

"Secret superpower?" you ask? Well, we all have something that we
kickass at, some skill set that makes us valuable at our jobs. It's not
a fixed thing, of course, it can change as we learn and grow, not to
mention as our responsibilities change. But it's there.

At various points, I've counted "leading kickass meetings," and
"knitting kickass sweaters," and "doing kickass research," as my
superpower, but these days I think it's probably "translating geek talk
into more general purpose information. So I write blog posts about
technology, and I edit notes that other people write, and I write
documentations and training documents. Right? Pretty useful superpower?
I think so, and it seems like other people think so as well.

And more than just success doing the kind of work that I find myself
doing right now, my
`ongoing <http://tychoish.com/posts/keeping-time/>`__ academic
projects tap into a similar superpower. I'm trying, on some level, to
figure out what--if anything--is so unique about open source development
practices, and how do these practices effect the way that the rest of us
interact with technology. Or something that stems from that.

In the strictest sense possible, I don't *need* to be able to be a
programmer to kickass writer/editor/academic/consultant but given the
frequency with which I find myself in a circle with a bunch of other
programmers I often have the sense that *I don't belong.*

Maybe this is just impostor syndrome-type stuff and I'll get over it as
I get my barring. But here's the counter example:

There are times when I *really* feel like a programmer. I have this
incredibly geeky, (and as near as I can tell, reasonably original,) way
of downloading my email, that is amazingly useful and powerful. Built
on-top of existing tools, I totally hacked it together myself with like
13-26 lines of shell script.

And, while I don't do it very much, I do end up building some small
number of Wordpress websites every year, and by now I've realized that
from that I know enough PHP and Wordpress-isms to not be a complete
idiot.

And maybe the taste of knowing what it's like to program, to write code
that works, is why *not* being a programmer (superpower or not) is
something that I'm sensitive about. Who knows?

Onward and Upward!

