===============
On Pseudonymity
===============

.. post:: 2008-09-10
   :author: tychoish

I've written before about `why I use a
pseudonym <http://tychoish.com/posts/pseudonym/>`__ and about the
`importance of naming <http://tychoish.com/posts/naming/>`__, but
there one aspect of this whole "being tycho" thing that I've never
really articulated, mostly because I think they're hard to explain.

*And then the entry sat in an open window on my desktop for the better
part of a week.*

Let this be a lesson to you. Don't write the introduction to a paragraph
that ends with "hard to explain" and then let the post fester for 5
days.

Luckily to save my ass, `someone on my knit
list <http://jove.homeschooljournal.net/>`__ (JoVE) posted something to
the queer knit list I moderate, about how she was always surprised when
people didn't realize that she was a she, even though she intentionally
uses a gender neutral handle/nickname/name.

*And then, I wrote this post, in response to the email.* I knew it was
sitting around waiting to come out. First to contextualize: all of the
previous list moderators had gone by "list mom" or "list dad" and being
even younger then than I am now, I was sort of weirded out by the
concept.

Also I've done *some* but not a lot of editing the below, just to clear
things up a bit.

When I started taking care of the list, re the listdad stuff for
previously covered reasons (age mostly, I think) and I think you (JoVE)
were the one who reminded folks that Sam was a gender-ambiguous name
(and I think this was at a time when there were more Samantha's on the
list anyway,) which I'm sort of vaguely aware when I introduce myself
online, but I forget too.

(For the record, while I'm not intensely invested in masculinity, I'm
pretty comfortable with my maleness.) I also think that I probably give
off more vibe as "Jewish" than "Gay," which means that the goyem either
think I'm ethnic or gay, and and the jews don't seem to notice (unless
they're queer.) But then I'm convinced that, at least in America the gay
male stereotype is lifted pretty indiscriminately from the jewish
stereotype, so fair is fair.

In the last year and some change I've been using a pseudonym that is
less jewish and more male (and fewer letters! woot!) than my given name,
and it's sort of an interesting drag to pull off (and I still usually
dash out my g-ds, which I think is endearing and a bit ironic/weird, and
it might negate the drag a bit, but, whatever.)

I've always seen my use of a pseudonym--at least in part--as paying
homage to a tradition of women (and jews) using pseudonyms to gain entry
into the publishing world. But in fairness there's probably a level of
"guy pretending to be a woman pretending to be a man," that gets lost in
the translation. Thankfully, the other part--keeping my given name out
of google for privacy concerns--works just fine.

And there you have it. Thanks for reading, more non-introspective
(extrospective?) posts soon.

