=============
On Publishing
=============

.. post:: 2009-11-19
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: economics, publishing

I've been thinking about publishing and the publishing industry of late.
I'm sure some of it is related to my `wanting of a
kindle <http://criticalfutures.com/2009/11/on-wanting-a-kindle>`__ and
my resulting thoughts on
`consolidation <http://criticalfutures.com/2009/11/the-dangers-of-consolidation>`__,
and maybe some small measure of it has to do with the fact that
sometimes it easier to think about publishing and the future of
publishing than it is to think about ones own creative projects. So be
it.

First, "*what is there to think about?*\ " you ask? Well, lots of
things: I've written about `wanting a
kindle <http://criticalfutures.com/2009/11/on-wanting-a-kindle>`__, and
some thoughts about
`consolidation <http://criticalfutures.com/2009/11/the-dangers-of-consolidation>`__,
and finally some thoughts on `digital
publishing <http://criticalfutures.com/2009/11/owning-bits.>`__ More
recently I've been thinking more about the "work" of publishing and
content creation, apart from the changing business models and
technological context.

Publishers (of any kind, and their editorial departments), by
contemporary convention are responsible for reading through the slush
and figuring what's good and what not. Ideally publishers are the
stewards of taste, and the people who figure out whats "good" and what
people want to read. On some fundamental level, publishers are curators.
The second main function of publishers are as the provider and organizer
around services. Publishers contract with copy editors, with design and
layout people, they get the cover art, they do promotional work, and the
million other things it takes to turn a manuscript into a book.

As the traditional publishing model has... deteriorated, I think a lot
of people have been interested in figuring out "what happens next?"
myself as much as anyone. Having said that, *the way* in which the
traditional publishing model has deteriorated has shaped how we think
about *what comes next.* This makes sense of course, but I want to
challenge myself to think about things more broadly (and you, dear
friends as well, but I'm sure you've already figured this one out.)

I mean, it's not like the old media died in a day. The blogging
phenomena started, and writers/etc. were able to promote their work
directly in ways that they hadn't managed to before. Margins on book
sales went down, which has cut into promotional budgets (as much as
anything). Also, thanks to developments in technology the size of most
first runs is *much* smaller than it used to be. This is probably a good
thing, but it also means that the capital investment on new authors and
books is much less than it used to be. ...and the end result of this is
that we're prone to seeing publishing companies as "Authors Services"
companies.

As a model for "what comes next," services for authors is a huge part of
what we need from the publishing companies. Centralizing and connecting
authors with people who can provide big-picture editing, with people who
do copy editing and proof reading, with people who do the cover art and
layout of the book itself, and with people who can do the promotional
work, getting the book plugged into the distribution channels. These are
real needs, that aren't going to evaporate any time soon.

But what about the editorial and curatorial roles of publishers? What
about the branding associated with publishing houses? I think there's
probably some future for critical discourse in blogs and in digital
forums, which will provide some of these functions, but that's not the
full answer, and I'm not sure what the full answer is.

As `I wrote,
earlier <http://criticalfutures.com/2009/11/owning-bits>`__, I think
figuring out some sort of subscription system to support content
creation and distribution. I think having the economic superstructure in
place, or at least worked out conceptually is really important before we
start working on new technologies, like ebook readers, and digital
content distribution channels.

It's an interesting time to be around, that's for sure.

