==========
On Romance
==========

.. post:: 2010-11-02
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: literature, writing

I don't read romance literature.

It's not my thing, which isn't saying much: there's a lot of literature
that I don't tend to consider "my thing," for one reason or another. I
don't really read fantasy, or horror, and I'm even picky within science
fiction. There are enough books out there and there is only so much
time. At least that's what I tell myself.

Nevertheless, Susan Groppi wrote a great post about `coming out as a
reader of
romance <http://www.susangroppi.com/2010/07/the-romance-closet/>`__ that
I found useful. I'm also reminded of comments that `N. K.
Jemison <http://nkjemison.com>`__ made about the in progress merging of
the fantasy and romance genres (sorry if I've miss-cited this), and I've
been thinking about how I view Romance fiction, and perhaps a bit more
generally about genre fiction ghettos.

In general, I think Romance has merit, both because it's entrancing and
I think fiction which captures people's imaginations and interest I
worthwhile and important to **not** dismiss because it's commercial, or
the readership/writers are largely women. There are potential problems
with romance, at least insofar as we typically envision it: with strong
hetero tendencies, an idealization of monogamy as a social practice and
marriage as an institution, and the potential to accept a very
conventional conceptualization of gender. I'm sure some romance
literature has been able to engage and trouble these troupes
productively, but I think it's a potential concern.

Having said that, I'm not sure that Romance has a lot of future as a
genre. This is to say that I think many of the elements of
romance--female characters, and an engagement with sexuality and
relationships--will increasingly merge into other genres. Romance as an
independent genre will linger on, but I think the "cool stuff happening
in the Romance field," will probably eventually move out into corners of
other genres: thriller, fantasy, maybe science fiction.

Actually, as I think about this, it's probably backwards. I think it's
less that Romance doesn't have a future, as it is that the future of
most popular literature lies in engaging with romance-elements and other
aspects of romance stories the context of non-romance specific styles.
This kind of thing is happening, and I think it'll probably continue to
happen.

I wish I could speak with greater certainty about the reasons why
romance literature enjoy higher readership, or what elements of romance
stories can be transplanted to other genres, but I think these are
probably questions which are beyond the scope of this post. Thanks for
reading!

