================
On Wireless Data
================

.. post:: 2011-01-04
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, internet, mobile-technology

It's easy to look around at all of the "smart phones," iPads, wireless
modems, and think that the future is here, or even that we're living on
the cusp of a new technological moment. While wireless data is amazing
particularly with respect to where it was a few years ago--enhanced by a
better understanding of how to make use of wireless data--it is also
true that *we're not there yet.*

And maybe, given a few years, we'll get there. But it'll be a while. The
problem is that too much of the way we use the Internet these days
assumes high quality connections to the network. Wireless connections
are low quality regardless of speed, in that latency is high and dropped
packets are common. While some measures can be taken to speed up the
transmission of data once connections are established, and this can give
the illusion of better quality, the effect is mostly illusory.

Indeed in a lot of ways the largest recent advancements in wireless
technology have been with how applications and platforms are designed in
the wireless context rather than anything to do with the wireless
transmission technology. Much of the development in the wireless space
in the last two or three years has revolved around making a little bit
of data go a long way, in using the (remarkably powerful) devices for
more of the application's work, and in figuring out how to cache some
data for "offline use," when it's difficult to use the radio. These are
problems that can be addressed and largely solved in software, although
there are limitations and inconsistencies in approach that continue to
affect user experience.

We, as a result, have a couple of conditions. First that we can transmit
a lot of data over the air without much trouble, but data integrity and
latency (speed) are things we may have to give up on. Second that
application development paradigms that can take advantage of this will
succeed. Furthermore, I think it's fairly safe to say that in the
future, successful mobile technology will develop in this direction as
opposed against these trends. Actual real-time mobile technology is dead
in the water, although I think some simulated real-time communication
works quite well in these contexts.

Practically this means, applications that tap an APO for data that is
mostly processed locally. Queue-compatible message passing systems that
don't require persistent connections. Software and protocols that assume
you're always "on-line" and are able to store transmissions gracefully
until you come out of the subway or get off of a train. Of course, this
also means designing applications and systems that are efficient with
regards to their use of data will be more successful.

The notion that fewer transmissions that consist of bigger "globs" of
data will yield better performance than a large number of very small
intermediate transmissions, is terribly foreign. It shouldn't be, this
stuff has been around for a while, but nevertheless here we are.

Isn't the future grand?

