========================================
Open-Source Knitting: Free Commericalism
========================================

.. post:: 2007-09-11
   :author: tychoish

I've been thinking/talking here recently about the connections between
open source (free; as in speech) development and knitting. I've also
said that this, at least in my mind is related to the ideas I was
considering in terms of `how writers and creative types make money in
the digital
age <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/being-an-artist-and-paying-the-bills/>`__,
and while in my `first
foray <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/osk-open-knitting/>`__ I touched upon
a debate over the commercial use differences between a creative commons
license [1]_ and the GPL/GFDL, I think that post dealt with too many
issues, and I think that the issue of commercializing content/product
that is also free (again speech, not beer) is one that needs ongoing
attention. Without further ado...

I should preface this with "but I'm not a lawyer," to be fair. This
thankfully has never stopped interested folk from honest commentary. My
main point earlier was non-commercial clauses in that in situations
where authorship is community mean that there is no "copyright holder"
present to override that clause of the license. While I license TealArt
to you all for non-commercial use, I can use my content commercially
should I choose to. If TealArt were a wiki; however, and every entry was
the product of a collaboration of many (more) people who, at least
theoretically, liscenced their work to TA under
"`by-Nc-Sa <http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/>`__\ "
terms, if the rules where adhered to, no one would ever be able to use
TA content commercially, not even me or any of the other originating
contributors. In this way, for group projects, in an odd way, the
GPL/GFDL approach lets the originators (and other people as well) use
the content commercial.

Now the share-alike and the self-propagating property of the GPL/GFDL
are probably equivalent from the perspective of an open knitting
project. This quality means that while the content of such projects are
open to be copied and used by *anyone*, any derivatives that are
distributed must be liscenced under the same license as the original.
The end result of this is that these licenses provide a good
"countermeasure" to commercialization, and in an odd way, a powerful
motivation for progress.

I think it would be helpful at this point to explore how commercial use
and "open sourcing" could work together in a knitting situation.

Say there was a repository of knitting designs which contained notes on
process, notes on intention, and even a pattern, and there was a project
in this repository that I thought would be great for a class I was going
to be teaching, I might decide to take the hat pattern and reproduce it
for the class. Reading the notes and other materials, I was able to
create an edited pattern that I could use in my class, which I "sold" to
my students. Under GPL/GFDL-style terms, I would be obligated to share
my modifications (and notes) with the OSK repository and my students.

It's important to recognize that what's being sold here, is not the
pattern so much as a class, a service around the pattern, which is
exactly how companies like Novell and RedHat make their money, and stay
afloat. Linux, despite being free (as in beer, as well as speech) is, or
can be, a viable business. To return to the hat class, we can assume
that while I could have come up with my own `hat
pattern <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/pattern-fine-gauge-knitted-beanie-style-hatcap/>`__,
the class is probably better for my using of the open hat pattern,
because it's been vetted my loads of other knitters, and hopefully my
contributions to the project was useful; but if I'm going to be
successful using Open Knit content, my teaching/etc. has to be more
helpful than simply editing and providing a pattern, because access to
the theoretical Open Knit content is, well, open to everyone: and free
(beer/speech), of course.

With luck this openness helps keep the products that people sell of the
highest quality, and if a GPL/GFDL/Share-Alike license is used
advancements that commercial uses produce become part of the larger body
of free/open work, and everyone benefits. It means that people hoping to
make money from knitting and knitting design have to find other ways to
participate in this process other than selling "intellectual property,"
tied to services (teaching, editorial work for publishers, yarn
design/sales, day jobs, subscription programs/clubs), but when you think
about it, that's how most people in the knitting business operate
already, they're just going it alone, rather than in a community. Which
brings us to a great topic for next time: how the community/social
aspect of open/free development projects (software and knitting) are
organized on a more granular level, in terms of who's doing the
organization and the work.

But until then, I remain, tycho

.. [1] This would be `the attribution, non-commercial,
   share-alike <http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/>`__
   license.
