====================
Open Source Userland
====================

.. post:: 2009-02-04
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: open-source, free-software, cyborg

Free software and open source users/developers are a sort of evangelical
bunch. I think a lot of this is because hackers what other people to use
the software that they spend their time working on, and of course some
of this is because of the `ethical systems that pervade the free
software
movement <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/ethics-of-free-software/>`__. And
of course we want to both expand the user base of certain pieces of
software within the open source world (eg. getting vim users to use
emacs) as well as getting people using proprietary systems (like
Windows/OS X/Microsoft Office) to use free/open systems (like
Linux/BSD/emacs).

The biggest challenge in the second project is
`usability <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/where-innovation-happens/>`__,
and I think both prospective users and developers (and people like me)
often wonder "Is open source usable for non-technical users?" This is a
question that I don't have an answer for. On the one hand, yes,
GNOME--for instance--is really usable. I don't think it's particularly
innovative software, nor is it clever in the way that OS X sometimes is,
but it is on the whole very functional.

Very often open source, in its entirety, is judged on the basis of its
usability, which strikes me as pretty ironic, as I'd wager most open
source projects--and without a doubt the most influential ones--are not
"user applications." In terms of importance, the kernels, the programing
languages, the libraries, the servers, and the frameworks are way more
successful, powerful, and robust than programs like "Open Office," or
"GNOME," or even--frankly--"Firefox."

I suspect this is the case because lower level stuff is either to get
right, and because hackers end up working with computers on a very low
level, so it makes sense that the itches they're scratching with open
source would work on a lower level. And the "cause of free software," is
more directly served by these lower level projects: open source depends
on users recognizing the value of hacking on code, which is more likely
to be realized in low level projects.

Which makes the project of evangelizing non-technical users more
difficult, because the argument isn't exactly "switch programs to
(potentially) better ones," but rather "become more involved the
technology you use," which is a much different argument. And I think the
"usability" question often serves as point of mystification in this much
different argument.

--------------

My original intent with this post to explore how some of the biggest
open source user-applications were in fact sponsored by really big
companies (in whole or in part). Novell puts some considerable resources
into GNOME and KDE; Sun obviously backs Open Office; Firefox and Mozilla
grew out of Netscape/AOL and get a lot of money from Google.

More than anything, I wonder what to make of this. Certainly there is
also backing for lower level projects: Sun and Java/mySQL; countless
companies and kernel development; 37 Signals and Ruby-on-Rails; and so
forth, but it feels more substantial for user applications, somehow.

I wouldn't go so far as to suggest that corporations are attempting to
re-mystify technology in open source. I think it's much more likely that
business know that having viable desktop environments will be
advantageous to them in the long run, and that since hackers are less
likely (on the whole) to work in the user-application space key
contributions of corporate-backed developers are more noticeable.

But maybe there's something else there too. I'm not sure, isn't the
world grand?

Onward and Upward!

