=================
Open Source Words
=================

.. post:: 2009-04-14
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing, open-source, cyborg

I'm working on laying the seed content for a new wiki that I hope to
launch in a few weeks. I want the wiki to be a free text/open source,
and I have been giving some thought to the best way to accomplish this.
This is, as it turns out, is pretty hard to accomplish: open source
software licences are designed (not surprisingly) for software, and
while Creative Commons Licences are *great*, I don't think they support
community authorship in a way that matches with my ideals/gaols.

The brilliance of the GPL (to my mind) is the way that it equalizes the
relationship between all contributors (big and small) *and* between the
"authors" and the "users." While in a lot of open source projects these
groups/interests overlap, they don't sometimes and those cases where
those interests might obstruct the freedom of the work, the GPL
equalizes it.

There are two mechanisms in the GPL (to my mind) that make this
possible: first, the requirement that source code be made available (and
reproducible) with any distribution means that you don't get anything
*extra* because you were/are the original author of the code. The
second, is the "viral" or "share alike" provisions where you can trust
that anything released under the GPL will stay under the GPL.

While these mechanisms increase freedom and equity in situations where
there are a select group of contributors and one legal author [1]_ the
freedoms are most powerful when the boundaries between contributor and
author and user are blurred.

This is all very basic stuff in the area of software freedom after all.
The truth is that, as near as I understand there aren't terms that can
be used to get a similar effect with non-code projects (exactly.) There
are a couple of copy left licenses, issued by `Creative
Commons <http://www.creativecommons.org>`__ and even the `Free Software
Foundation <http://www.fsf.org>`__, but there are problems with both of
these strategies. Here are the issues as I see them:

The `GNU FDL <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html>`__ is designed,
primarily for software manuals and documentation in support of free
software, and is strategically designed for this kind of text. It, as a
result, lacks a certain... grace and elegance for dealing with other
kinds of text, particularly when dealing with derivative and physical
reproductions of a work.

In contrast, the Creative Commons Licenses [2]_ (CC) don't have a
concept of "source," so that while they provide the same sorts of rights
regarding distribution of work (and thereby equalize some of the rights
between distributor/user), they don't facilitate derivative work in the
same way that open source licenses do.

I'm mostly worried about the following scenario. Say I release a piece
of audio-art in a lossless (high quality; source) format (eg. FLAC/WAV)
as well as MP3/OGG file (lower quality; compiled) under a CC license
that permits derivative work under a viral/share alike terms. Then you
turn around, re-equalize, and mix my audio-art with some other similarly
licensed audio, and release it as a derivative work. That's cool. But
the derivative work needed be in the higher quality format, because CC
doesn't have a concept of source. Not having a concept of source doesn't
effect the possibility of derivative works, but it does mean that
derivative works are second-class citizens, as it were. CC doesn't
equalize this relationship.

If I'm wrong about this interpretation, I'd *love* to be corrected, for
the record.

For works where there's a single author, having derivative works as
second-class citizens isn't a bad thing, and I can imagine that it would
be seen as a feature in some cases. In cases where a text/work is
authored by a community this is a major flaw.

--------------

`I
hear <http://fsfeurope.org/projects/gplv3/barcelona-moglen-transcript#lgpl>`__
that there's a project to `Simplify the
GFDL <http://gplv3.fsf.org/sfdl-draft-2006-09-26.html>`__ (or provide a
way to use the GPL for documents/texts) that might remedy these problems
(haven't dug through it yet). In the mean time, I'm wondering what folks
think on the subject.

My inclination is to just use the GPL with the specification that
"source" would be some sort of plain text (ASCII/UTF-8/UTF-16)
compatible file. That achieves the goal required, without too much fuss
or concocting a new license that would prove incompatible down the road.
I think mandating a particular format (markdown/org-mode/xhtml/LaTeX) is
a bit too strict, but I'd hate to see a document developed in the open,
released as a PDF derivative without making (say) LaTeX sources
available.

Though I'll be the first to acknowledge the irony that for non-software
works, the "source" isn't "human readable source code" but rather
"machine readable data source."

The only real practical concern is that if the FSF releases a 2.0 of the
FDL (or a SFDL) that becomes the a standard for free/open source
non-software/text projects then going with the GPL might make that a
difficult/bothersome transition on that. So the question, seems to be
would providing the option to upgrade to the GNU FDL make sense (eg.
this work is licensed under the GPL [with an understanding of what the
source is] version 3 or (at your choice) a later version [or a later
version of the GFDL]).

Anyway, back to writing.

.. [1]
Copyleft and the GPL doesn't to be fair, eliminate copyrights, as all
code released under the GPL will (theoretically, eventually, should a
public domain ever be reinstated in the US) revert to the public
domain as described in the constitution. GPL is, in many ways an
extension of copyright, albeit one designed to destabilize the
copyright system.

.. [2]
There are many flavors of Creative Commons' licenses, which provide
various freedoms. The Attribution-Share Alike License is most
analogous to the GFDL/GPL.

