=======
Open ID
=======

.. post:: 2008-09-15
   :author: tychoish

Weeks ago I was talking with a coworker about internet communities and
web development, and other related topics, and our various experiences
with "community websites." One of my largest complaints/points in this
conversation was about how "community sites" always feel like walled
communities in a way, and that while I'm often vaguely interested in any
*number* of particular community sites at this point, I'm not
particularly interested in *joining* yet another website, and "keeping
up" and particpating in these
`pull <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pull_technology>`__ based
communities is, difficult.

Now before you call me jaded, I'll cop to it, and I'll clarify that I'm
a really intense consumer of internet content, and I'm also really
controlling about the format that I get my data in, so I don't think my
experiences are particularly typical. *Resume argument...*

The obvious solution to this problem that I mentioned is `Open
ID <http://openid.net/>`__ which is a
`service <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenID>`__ where one website
accepts the authentication credentials of another website.

So here's how it works. I sign in to an OpenID provider (I mostly use
live journal for this purpose, but any will work), I take my LJ address
and go to a site which accepts OpenID logins (like
`identi.ca <http://identi.ca/>`__), and the site which accepts openID,
asks LJ (etc.) "is this really tycho," at which point *LJ* makes sure
I'm logged in and asks *me* "do you really want me to do this?" I say
yes, and then I'm logged in. No passwords to be compromized, no
passwords to forget. no fuss. It just works.

There are a couple of other nice features, first that you can mask your
login with a different URL. My Open ID url is this website, but the
provider/verifier of my identity is live journal, and this works because
of a tag that's in the HTML of tychoish.com. In addition to being
pretty, if I at some point decide that I want a different LJ account or
a totally different Open ID provider, I can change the URL in question
in the HTML of tychoish.com, and everything still works.

Secondly, you can run your own Open ID server. Unlike other systems
which unify identity management online, OpenID doesn't depend on one
company providing authority, or security, which is nice, because there's
no one target to hack, as there would be if a company like Google or
Microsoft the unified decentralized server.

Open ID is of course open to the same kinds of problems around identity
squatting and theft that having lots of logins can have, but it doesn't
create any new problem or security risk, and there are ways that having
fewer passwords, and fewer accounts could actually be more secure.

But online communities? How does that fit in. Well simple. Open ID makes
signing up for communities a lot easier. It's the first step in opening
up our participation in multiple online communities to a more federated
environment, and I think it could conceptually make it more possible for
a lot of smaller niche websites to coexist in a larger internet ecology.

I'm going to post more on the subject of the ecosystems of internet
communities and federation later this week, but lets return to my
conversation with the coworker where I said something like: "you know,
if only people would actually use OpenID?"

And he said, "Yeah, good luck with that one."

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!

