===============================
Open Source and Women's Studies
===============================

.. post:: 2008-09-05
   :author: tychoish

One of the best things that happened to me during college was that I
discovered and got involved in the Women's and Gender Studies program at
my school. Though I went to college very interested in gender and
sexuality *stuff* I'm not sure that I ever really intended to come out
of the experience with a second major in Women's Studies, but I did, and
I think it was a really great thing.

Making sense of that experience, since graduation has been more
difficult, as I'm probably not directly going to go work "in the field"
(if there is even a thing there,) and I find my academic interests [1]_
taking me elsewhere.

The thing that the bright eyed 18-year old tycho found so intriguing
about women's studies is that on the first (or second) day of the first
class, the professor handed us a packet of readings photo-copied from
her books. And the readings weren't just "clever parsing of the
literature in a forum even undergraduates could handle," but the key (or
parts of the key) documents themselves. From the beginning I felt like a
participant in a larger discussion, which is something that I didn't get
from my other classes.

While in the end I learned that participating in these discourses is
something that you sort of have to fight your way into, I also came to
the conclusion that I didn't much want to be involved in a field that
didn't value thought and participation of its students. And so I dove
into Women's Studies and I don't regret it for an instant.

--------------

While I `don't tend to buy into the
software-is-freedom <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/open-source-freedom/>`__
argument, [2]_ I think there is something very *freeing* about open
source in the same way that I found Women's Studies so academically
freeing. The invitation to participate in the software development
progress that open source represents is really powerful and even if
you're not a programer in the traditional sense, the invitation to
participate in a serious discussion about the shape of the tools that we
use is pretty powerful.

At least I think so.

.. [1] One of the conclusions that a historian friend and I came to is that
   Women's Studies is prone--particularly in the higher levels--to
   becoming a method and a perspective rather than a particular or
   unitary subject. This translates rather poorly once it gets out of
   your head, but is useful in maintaining a measure of intrapersnal
   coherence.

.. [2] The idea that open-source software is good and we need it because it
   is our freedom from corporations and government strikes me as missing
   the larger picture. Open source is good (and we need it) because it
   results in higher quality software and because it's more useful.
   Having said that, I think that revolutionaries are pretty likely to
   use Linux or BSD because it is accessible and legal, not because
   there's something intrinsically freeing about having accessible
   source code. As a slogan I think there's something to the notion that
   "you can't code your way to freedom."
