======================================
Operating Systems and the Driver Issue
======================================

.. post:: 2009-10-19
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, futurism, technology

I made a quip the other day about the UNIX Epoch problem (unix time
stamps, are measured in seconds since Jan 1, 1970, and displayed in a 10
digit number. Sometime in 2038, there will need to be 11 digits, and
there's no really good way to fix that.) Someone responded "whatever, we
won't be using UNIX in thirty years!"

*Famous last words*.

People were saying this about UNIX itself *years* ago. Indeed before
Linux had even begun to be a "thing," Bell Labs had moved on to "Plan 9"
which was to be the successor to UNIX. It wasn't. Unix came back. Hell,
in the late eighties and early nineties we even thought that the
"monolithic kernel" as a model of operating system design was *dead*,
and here we are. Funny that.

While it's probably the case that we're not going to be using the same
technology in thirty years that we are today (i.e. UNIX and GNU/Linux,)
it's probably also true that UNIX as we've come to know it, is not going
to disappear given UNIX's stubborn history in this space. More
interesting, I think, is to contemplate the ways that UNIX and Linux
will resonate in the future. This post is an exploration of one of these
possibilities.

--------------

I suppose my title has forced me to tip my hand slightly, but lets
ignore that for a moment, and instead present the leading problem with
personal computing technology today: hardware drivers.

"Operating System geeks," of which we all know one or two, love to
discuss the various merits of Windows/OS X/Linux "such and such works
better than everything else," "such and such is more stable than this,"
"suck and such feels bloated compared to that," and so on and so forth.
The truth is that if we take a step back, we can see that the core
problem for all of these operating systems is pretty simple: it's the
drivers, stupid.

Lets take Desktop Linux as an example. I'd argue that there are two
large barriers to it's widespread adoption. First it's not immediately
familiar to people who are used to using Windows. This is pretty easily
addressed with some training, and I think Microsoft's willingness to
change their interface in the last few years (i.e. the Office "Ribbon,"
and so forth,) is a great testimony to the adaptability of the user
base. The second, and slightly more thorny issue is about hardware
drivers: which are the part of any operating system that allow the
software to talk to hardware like video, sound, and networking
(including, of course, wireless) adapters. The Kernel has gotten much
better in this regard in the past few years (probably by adding support
for devices without requiring their drivers be open source), but the
leading cause of an "install just not working," is almost always
something related to the drivers.

"Linux People," avoid this problem by buying hardware that they know is
well supported. In my world that means, "Intel everything particularly
if you want wireless to work, and Nvidia graphics if you need something
peppy, which I never really do," but I know people who take other
approaches.

In a weird way this "geek's approach to linux" is pretty much the same
way that Apple responds to the driver problem in OS X. By constraining
their Operating System to run only on a very limited selection of
hardware, they're able to make sure that the drivers *work*. Try and add
a third party wireless card to OS X. It's not pretty.

Windows is probably the largest victim to the driver problem: they have
to support *every piece of consumer hardware* and their hands are more
or less tied. The famous Blue Screen of Death? Driver errors. System
bloat (really for all operating systems) tends to be about device
drivers. Random lockups? Drivers. Could Microsoft build better solutions
for these driver problems, or push equipment manufacturers to use
hardware that had "good drivers," probably; but as much as it pains me,
I don't really think that it would make a whole lot of business sense
for them to do that, at the moment.

--------------

More on this tomorrow...

