====================================
Organize Your Thoughts More Betterly
====================================

.. post:: 2010-06-02
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: information-management

I've been `working with a reader and friend on a project to build a tool
for managing information for humanities scholars and others who deal
with textual
data <http://wiki.cyborginstitute.com/people/madalu/information-repository-systems/>`__,
and I've been thinking about the problem of information management a bit
more seriously. Unlike numerical, or more easily categorized information
data, how to take a bunch of textual information--either of your own
production or a library of your own collection--is far from a solved
problem.

The technical limitation--from a pragmatic perspective--is that you need
to have an understanding not only of the specific tasks in front of you,
but a grasp of the entire *collection* of information you work with in
order to effectively organize, manage, and use the texts as an
aggregate.

"But wait," you say. "Google solved this problem a long time ago, you
don't need a deterministic information management tool, you need to
brute force the problem with enough raw data, some clever algorithms,
and search tools," you explain. And on some level you'd be right. The
problem is of course, you can't create knowledge with Google.

Google doesn't give us the ability to discover information that's new,
or powerful. Google works best when we know *exactly* what we're looking
for, the top results in Google are most likely to be the resources that
the *most* people know and are familiar. Google's good, and useful and a
wonderful tool that `more people should probably
use <http://lmgtfy.com/>`__ but Google cannot lead you into novel
territory.

Which brings us back to local information management tools. When you can
collect, organize, and manipulate data in your own library you can draw
novel conclusions, When the information is well organized, and you can
survey a collection in useful and meaningful ways, you can see holes and
collect more, you can search tactically, and within subsets of articles
to provide. I've been talking for more than a year about `the utility of
curation in the creation of value
on-line <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/curation-and-content-overload/>`__.
and fundamentally I think the same holds true for personal information
collections.

Which brings us back to the ways we organize information. And my firm
conclusion that we don't have a really good way of organizing
information. Everything that I'm aware of either relies on search, and
therefore only allows us to find what we already know we're looking for,
or requires us to understand our final conclusions during the
preliminary phase of our investigations.

The solution to this problem is thus two fold: First, we need tools that
allow us to work with and organize the data for our projects, full stop.
Wiki's, never ending text files, don't really address all of the
different ways we need to work with and organize information. Secondly
we need tool tools that are tailored to the way researchers who deal in
text work with information from collection and processing to quoting and
citation, rather than focusing on the end stage of this process. These
tools should allow our conceptual framework for organizing information
to evolve as the project evolves.

I'm not sure what that looks like for sure, but I'd like to find out.
`If you're interested, do help us think about
this <http://wiki.cyborginstitute.com/>`__!

(*Also, see this post `regarding the current state of the Cyborg
Institute <http://www.cyborginstitute.com/2010/06/a-report-from-the-institute/>`__.*)

