=======
OS Wars
=======

.. post:: 2007-11-29
   :author: tychoish

Lest you think this is yet another mac versus linux versus windows
versus OS/2 Warp FreeBSD post, it's really about moves to "Operating
Systems," that exist within programs, not operating systems in the
classic sense.

--------------

So I posted a while back about how there seems to be an `application
development trend <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/browseros/>`__ away from
desktop operating systems and towards developing applications that can
be used online in a web browser.

Basically I thought that though exciting, a lot of these apps were slow,
hard to use, and that truth be told most browsing software was flawed
(slow, non-standardized,) and so forth. Despite the fact that there's
more bandwidth floating around and the fact that people have gotten
better at writing server side and host side applications.

Also earlier I posted a, mostly comical, list of five things that you
can do in emacs but probably shouldn't. To subtitle this a little bit,
emacs is one of the grand old text editors, written around a program
language from the 50s (LISP), it's incredibly powerful, customizable
program, it's free, and it's a program that a lot of the people who
write programs use. So even though, the best word I have to describe it
is *absurd*, it gets a lot of attention. Anyway, long story short,
people have written extensions (in
`LISP <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisp_(programming_language)>`__!)
that gets emacs to do all sorts of things in addition to writing
text/code. Like, there are scripts to check your email in emacs, games
that you can play in emacs, scripts that fetch web pages in emacs, IRC
clients that run inside of emacs, and so forth. If I were a huge enough
dork, I think actually I could probably get some of the functionality of
every program I'm running at this moment, as a script inside of emacs.

I hope you're seeing where this is going, at least a lot faster than I
did. While I'm not a huge emacs dweeb, I have a certain sort of respect
for working that way: once you learn your text editing system (and after
all, most of what we do is edit text) you don't want to move out of this
environment. Particularly if there's a learning curve as steep as emacs.

Initially I thought that the shift towards using the web browser as a
sort of lack luster runtime for "new" applications, was about lazy
programers, and a sort of mass delusion, but really, I think it has more
to do with people not wanting to leave their comfort zone, the
application that they already spend a lot of time in, in the same way
that *urdweebs* don't want to leave emacs (or vim, and so forth.)

Anyway, it's cool that clicked, I'm back to figuring out how to install
`mutt on OS X <http://linsec.ca/Using_mutt_on_OS_X>`__ so I can more
automatically integrate my mail drafting into TextMate, and be done with
Mail.app for once and for all. Maybe after I'm done with the semester.
Heh.

Onward and Upward

