====================
Other Sport Sweaters
====================

.. post:: 2007-11-24
   :author: tychoish

I posted pictures
`yesterday <http://tychoish.com/posts/black-friday-list/>`__ of a
sweater that I had just finished.

It's a jaunty little number, and I'm glad that I'll have it in the pile,
even if I do have to do a little bit of extreme blocking first. This is
probably my best design to-date. Of course there are others that are
good, certainly others that are more impressive feats of knitting
engineering, but there aren't a lot of other ones that look good as
consistently, and regularly. It's a good sweater, testified by the fact
that I've knit 3 versions of it by now, and am probably going to knit
another version soon.

There are a couple of things that make this sweater so delightful to
knit and wear. First it's knit entirely in the round, so there's not a
lot of thought involved, and while I certainly like complex projects,
sometimes it's nice to have something plain going on. Because it's knit
in the round there are a number of knitterly wisdom that's incorporated
into the design: gussets at the underarm, combined front and back neck
shaping, a slit neck which regulates temperature for those in more
hospitable climates, short rows that keep the back from riding up, and
so forth. Secondly, as a design feature, the fact that the top of the
shoulders and sleeves are a different color gives this sweater some of
the appearance of having saddled sleeves, which ameliorates the problem
of drop shoulders, and the problem of boring solid colored, without
going crazy.

I call it the sport sweater, mostly because I think that the split neck
is kinda sport-like, and it emphasizes the fact that this is a casual,
comfortable sweater, not a formal blouse or jacket-type sweater. I
dunno, it seemed like the thing to call it. This sweater would be my
submission into a book of "house sweaters," that I've thought of putting
together for a while. I think it'd be cool to ask a bunch of designers
to submit designs for the sweater that they find themselves reaching for
when ever it gets a little drafty. I think we all have "that sweater,"
and I think it'd be an interesting collection of "real" people sweaters
(as opposed to most of the sweaters that make it in, say Vogue
Knitting.)

So I wanted to post pictures of the other two sweaters in this series
for reference, and because I finally have pictures of these sweaters.

Here's the first iteration:

.. figure:: http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2223/2059346563_d39db6984e.jpg?v=0
   :alt: First iteration

and

.. figure:: http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2327/2060134520_d119f6aa28.jpg?v=0
   :alt: Wearing Original Sport Sweater

Here's the remake version that I did two years ago, in attempt to get
something that was a little bit more fitted, out of better yarn.

.. figure:: http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2298/2059343843_80c8bd8646.jpg?v=0
   :alt: Gray Sport on Table

and

.. figure:: http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2395/2059338327_1e3bb67e11.jpg?v=0
   :alt: Gray Sport Wearing

Enjoy. Working an unusual Saturday at the Yarn Store. Hoping I'm not too
worn by the end of the day.

Onward and Upward!
