=================
Other Daily Grind
=================

.. post:: 2008-06-04
   :author: tychoish

One of the things that I enjoy reading so much on other people's blogs
are the hilarious (and weird) stories people have about their jobs. `Sam
Starbuck <http://copperbadge.livejournal.com>`__ is particularly good at
this. On the other hand, I don't tend to contribute to this body of
literature. So here's some commentary on the genre

Work is fascinating, and something that we aren't prone to talk very
much about it. In part because it is work, and work, is by definition a
drag. In most cases we don't work because we enjoy it, we work because
we have to. Even if our careers are something that is important to our
sense of who we are, even if our jobs are fundamentally something that
we enjoy, work is alienating, and a drag.

To be fair, a lot of jobs don't begin as alienating enterprises, but I
think in time they become that, becuase there is a fundamental conflict
of interest between the worker and the institutions (however small) that
employ them. Employers demand/need individuals to contribute
intellectual/bodily efforts, and while money helps the compensation, the
economic conversion between labor and money is psychically difficult,
particularly in light of it's variability. Ok, enough theory.

And yet, we spend the majority of our lives at work, working. This
creates something of a paradoxical situation, but thankfully (in
addition being able to eat as a result of work) some people are able to
write pretty interesting stories. And their are entire genres of blogs
(academic blogs, doctor/nurse blogs, etc) that are dedicated to people's
work lives. Good stuff.

--------------

So my work. I've mentioned that I'm basically working a 9-5 gig at least
through the end of the summer, and I'm looking for something more long
term. I have a job interview next week (wish me luck,) for something
that would be really great. I don't want to jinx anything, so I'll say
more when I know it.

As for the mean time, there aren't a lot of great stories. Most of the
really funny things in my day have to do with transcriptions errors from
olds transcripts of 20 year old interviews. The number of ways people
misheard and miswrote "Kwame Nkrumah" is really amazing. But it doesn't
make for good story telling.

