================================================
Pattern: Fine Gauge Knitted Beanie Style Hat/Cap
================================================

.. post:: 2004-07-26
   :author: tychoish

Disclaimer: This patterns was created based on rough math, available
yarn, and vague memory of what my gauge usually is with this type of
yarn. After the satisfactory completion of the project, I've
compiled my memory of the process and evidence gathered from the
finished object. There are two sets of directions: a narrative
description of the process written in plain English, and pithy
knitting shorthand. I make no guarantees, feel free to notify me of
any errors or improvements to the pattern, but I think it should
work. Enjoy!

I was finished with most of my other knitting project and needed
something new that would keep me interested and would last more than a
couple of days. I had a 100 gram ball of Lion Brand Magic Stripe Yarn (I
believe it only comes in 100g balls), and I defiantly wasn't in the mood
to make socks, and this yarn has been lying around for a while, so my
mom suggested making a hat. So I started to make a hat, and I'm usually
fairly wary of hats, cause I have a problem getting the crown decreases
to come out right. Despite this, I am moving to Wisconsin in a few
months, and I need all the woolen garments I can make, so I started
making a hat.

I usually get somewhere in the neighborhood of 7 stitches to an inch
with this kind of yarn, on US 1 or 0 size needles. Generally I use US 1s
for 4 ply yarn, and US 0s for 4 ply yarn. Magic stripe is 6 ply, so I
used 1s (Susan Bates, coated, in this case). After measuring my head, I
cast on 150 stitches, (or more accurately had my mom cast on 150
stitches). She used the long tail method; any kind of elastic cast on
method will work, though. I began knitting in 2x2 ribbing, (that is knit
2, purl 2), for 3.5 inches. I should note, that by the third round I had
148 stitches at e this point. I tend to decrease as appropriate rather
than increase to correct errors in establishing a ribbing pattern, it's
unnoticeable without a magnifying glass, and in this case, it makes the
cast on a bit more forgiving.

After 3.5 inches, switch to stocking stitch, it might be prudent to
decrease 7-10% of the total stitches, as this point, (10-15 stitches,
evenly spaced). I must admit that I forgot to do this on the original
model, and I haven't gotten to that point on the second hat yet. Again,
knit for 3.5 inches, plain stocking stitch, or perhaps a hair more. I
knit about 3.75 inches.

It's now time to begin the crown decreases. Rather than randomly
choosing thright number of spokes and decrease types, I modified the
pattern for a sock toe that I'd seen my mother do. It's from the
mismatched striped socks in Nancy Bush's "Knitting for Travelers," or
"Road Knitting" (there's one book, the question is with my memory), and
believe it or not, it worked: unbelievably well.

For the first decrease round knit seven (K7), knit two together (k2tog),
and repeat for the entire round; then knit seven rounds plain. Then knit
the second decrease round, which is knit six (K6), knit two together
(k2tog) and repeat for the rest of the ro0und, then knit six rounds
plain. Continue in this pattern, there are eight rounds in total. After
the knit one, knit two together (repeat for the round), and the single
plain round that follows, knit one round of knit two togethers, and end
with a single plain round. The 16 inch circular needle will probably
become too large after the knit four knit two together round, so switch
to double points, or some alternate method of knitting very small
rounds, but you probably knew that.

By this point you've probably noticed two things. First of all, those
decrease rounds don't fit evenly into the round. This is ok and is not
ultimately detrimental to the final hat. It's possible that this only
happened because I had 148 stitches, and not a more even 150. But I'm
sure some will want to alter the number of stitches because not everyone
has a head that's SamSized. You could alternate the decreases so that
they come out perfectly, or make sure the number of stitches you chose
is perfectly divisible. But I'd recommend that you not worry about it, I
admit that I move the last decrease over a stitch or two to make it more
even, but not worrying about it is just as effective. Knitter's choice.

Also, you've noticed that you've come to the end of the pattern and you
have 7-10 stitches, on your needles. I grafted (Kitchener stitch) this
opening closed. I think it looks great. If you're afraid of grafting,
don't worry I am too. You could also break the yarn and draw through the
remaining stitches (especially if you want to add a pom-pom.) After
this, weave in the two ends, smile pat yourself on the back, and start
on a second one.

Pithy Directions for this Fine Gauge Knitted Beanie Style Hat/Cap

**Gauge:** 7 st/in on US 1's **Needles:** 16" Circular US 1s, and 1 set
of US 1 double points. **Yarn:** 1 skein of Lion Brand Magic Stripe
Yarn. 100 grams. There will be leftovers. The finished product weights
about 60 grams. **Other Materials:** 1 Tapestry needle, and a marker (or
suitable length of yarn)

**Directions:** CO 150 st on 16" cn. Join (being careful to not twist,
of course). Establish K2 P2 rib.

When piece measures 3.5 in. switch to st st. *K8 K2tog repeat from * 15
times for one round. (optional.)

Knit plain for 3.75 inches.

*Crown Decreases:* *K7 K2tog repeat from * till end, fudging the last
few stitches as desired. K 7 rounds plain.

*K6 K2tog repeat from * till end, fudging the last few stitches as
desired. K 6 rounds plain.

*K5 K2tog repeat from * till end, fudging the last few stitches as
desired. K 5 rounds plain.

*K4 K2tog repeat from * till end, fudging the last few stitches as
desired. K 4 rounds plain.

*K3 K2tog repeat from * till end, fudging the last few stitches as
desired. K 3 rounds plain.

*K2 K2tog repeat from * till end, fudging the last few stitches as
desired. K 2 rounds plain.

*K1 K2tog repeat from * till end. K 1 rounds plain.

*K2tog repeat from * till end. K 1 rounds plain.

Using Kitchener stitch, graft remaining stitches together. Weave in
ends. Apply Hat to head, folding the ribbing up over the ears. Prepare
to be complimented for your new hat, and cast on 150 for another one.

