===================
Patterns as Stories
===================

.. post:: 2008-10-09
   :author: tychoish

One of the things that "gave" in a great life-shakedown of 2008, was my
interest/intention to design/publish knitting patterns. I design a lot
of my own sweaters and things, I enjoy the technical and creative
aspects of knitting, and I *really* enjoy the meditative aspects of
knitting. At the same time, I've worked in a number of different yarn
stores, taught knitting classes and lessons, and tried to write
patterns, and each engagement with the "business" side of the craft,
leaves me feeling drained and weary of wool.

And so in the shakedown, I decided that while I probably have more
knitting skill/experience and knowledge than I have of just about
anything else, I don't have the interest or the energy to make a go of
it. Or maybe more clearly, doing the things I'd need to do to become a
full-time knitter would make knitting less fun in all the other ways
that I find relaxing.

As I more fully `return to
knitting <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/return-to-knitting/>`__ I've had
to revisit this decision a fair piece. I ask myself do I want to try to
teach again? Do I want to apply to give workshops at Folk schools and
craft centers, let alone yarn stores? [1]_ And I think the answer is,
mostly not. I do a lot of things very seriously, and I don't know that
it's worth my time and energy to work on knitting more seriously, given
that I want to do other things and, blah blah blah.

But, and you knew there was a but coming, I'm not sure that I want to
just give it up. Not knitting, but knitting seriously, and writing about
knitting, and all of that. Part of this reflection are thoughts about my
niche, and my role in the discourse of knitting. [2]_ Which is maybe
what I should have thought about when I was trying to figure out how to
teach knitting, or write patterns a couple of years ago.

Unlike a lot of popular knit bloggers, I'm not big on taking pictures of
my knitting, in progress, and my knitting tastes don't tend to suit
"knitblogging" very well. I knit big projects in fine yarn and so I
finish something very infrequently. And as a designer, I tend to knit
for myself and I tend towards non-typical construction techniques. [3]_
Also I'm not nearly as [funny][harlot] and/or [polished][franklin] (let
alone accomplished). So figuring out where I fit into this, or what my
niche is is something of a personal challenge.

The last--and pretty key--piece of this personal puzzle is what I get
out of the "knitting discourse," I don't subscribe to the magazines, I
don't really follow patterns except tangentially and as inspiration, I
haven't made a Clapotis, I've never taken a knitting class (aside from
Knitting Camp), and I tend to buy really boring yarn.

So I've thought about writing knitting patterns more as essays, and less
as instructional documents. I enjoy writing essays, and I really like
writing about knitting, and I like reading about other people's
knitting, and I'm not terribly interested in writing touchy-feely essay
about how knitting soothes my soul or makes me feel closer to other
people. But patterns as a story? Patterns that attempt to communicate
not just the object, but also the design process, and the state of mind
of the knitter during knitting? Am I the only person who would find this
interesting? [4]_

Onward and Upward!

.. [1] Maybe this is the result of the clash between my growing stash and my
   normal frugality, or the result of my spinning hobby/habit, but in
   the last couple of years, I've become less and less interested in the
   act of buying yarn. I like yarn, and I like all sorts of yarn makers
   and yarn shops, but I don't find commerce to be a relaxing part of
   the knitting experience. Which isn't a bad thing, it's just a cause
   of my trepidation.

.. [2] I'm sorry that I've lapsed into academic-ese, but in this instance I
   mean the contemporary knitting world. The big knitting magazines,
   Raverly, real-world knitting groups, my knitting list, knit shops,
   podcasts, and so forth. Basically the knitworld.

.. [3] The only real problem with this is that the designs that make a
   career (Kate Gilbert's Clapotis or Cookie A.'s Monkey Socks, for
   instance) tend to not be sweaters/men's designs, and while there need
   to be more men's designs, I think the reason that there *aren't* is
   pretty market driven. [franklin]:http://the-panopticon.blogspot.com/
   [harlot]:http://www.yarnharlot.ca/blog/

.. [4] I'm serious about this question folks. Would you be interested in
   reading a knitting pattern like this?
