======================
Perfect Notebook Bliss
======================

.. post:: 2002-12-21
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing, tealart

(**Editor's note:** Despite the fact that I don't particularly like this
post, or find that its relavant, or think that its particularly well
done, I need another entry to post for testing reasons so here goes
nothing. Enjoy it, or not.)

For various reason I've been referred to as a geek, and I'd agree with
this assessment most of the time: I'm really good with computers, I have
lots of mobile technology equipment and experience, and I use technology
to assist my productivity as much as possible. The odd thing is that in
many senses I'm incredibly retro. The biggest testament to my retro
hippness, is the fact that I do a lot of writing with a fountain pen on
paper (mostly pre-writing and other short things when I'm out in the
real world.) Being a fairly compulsive person, I like to keep things in
some semblance of order and a number of various notebooks, and other
collections of blank paper help me do this.

I've tried unlined sketch books (which would have been great had it not
been book bound, thus disagreeing with my left-handedness and
portability demands,) low grade wide ruled notebooks, high grade collage
rule books, memo pads, tablets, and finally steno pads. My demands are
fairly high. Spiral binding is required, I need to be able to fit a
medium amount of stuff on a page and I need to be able to throw it into
a bag with ease, the paper has to be smooth and absorbent so that it
agrees with my pen(s), the notebook shouldn't be that thick because I
like to be able to fill up a notebook every so often so when there are
about 5 million billion sheets I never feel like I'm accomplishing
anything.

For a long time I'd been muddling through a notebook that wasn't perfect
but it did the job fairly well, and one day as I was walking through
Wal-Mart looking for batteries or t-shirts I walked by the notebook isle
and saw something that looked perfect: a baby-blue steno pad for 97
cents. I really should have thought of it sooner, but in any case I
bought it and took it home. It worked perfectly and a few pages into it
I started writing an entry about finally finding the perfect notebook.
It was entitled The Perfect Notebook Bliss and in it I planned to
celebrate finally finding a notebook that was as near to perfection as I
could manage.

Then I went on a canoe trip. While my prized note book didn't get nearly
as wet as some of my other things, one bottom corner got wet and the ink
bleed through a little. No big deal. I rescued some of the most badly
disturbed pages and kept using it.

Only hours ago, I went for a longish walk and had a good time (sarcasm)
while it rained and thundered on me for about an hour. I hoped that the
combination of my bag, my speed, the distance and my ability to maneuver
my way between the rain drops without an umbrella would protect me and
my belongings from becoming drenched. It didn't work and most of my
stuff got a little wet. Thankfully it all dried out fairly quickly, but
the thing about fountain pen ink is that it will run with abandon if it
gets a little bit wet.

I've given up on that steno pad, it's cursed, and the bottoms of the
white sheets have dark bluish color and the lines have washed away.
Thankfully I know now what the perfect notebook is√ñalmost. For my next
foray into the realm of blank paper, I'm looking for something that is
spiral bound across the top, has medium to high quality paper, is fairly
small both in height and length as well as depth, and if I can find one
that is meant as a drawing or sketch pad (thus no lines), I may have
finally found the perfect notebook. Bliss.

