==========================
Pickwick English Tea Blend
==========================

.. post:: 2008-04-09
   :author: tychoish

So I promised another tea review, and given that I've had about half of
the box so far, I think it's fair that I start.

After I posted my last review, a few people--mostly relatives--made a
great deal of fun of me for such a geeky focus on a cup of tea. And
having said that, I took the opportunity to look a little more
thoroughly at the tea blogging community.

Wow, there was a fully developed niche that I have *no exposure to*.
I've been on this "internet thing" for so long that I still think of
fully deployed niche blogs as being sort of "new," which I think
explains some of my awed response.

In any case, I'm not *that much of a tea dweeb*, most of the teas that
I'm reviewing come in bag form, and I'm not experimenting to find the
proper brewing nirvana for each tea variety, I'm just drinking the tea
as I normally would and seeing how it goes.

The tea this time is Pickwick English Tea Blend. It's a dutch tea, or at
least the packaging is all dutch. The tea-bags are pretty big it seems,
and there is no individual wrapping, though the bags all have strings
and grip-tab things. This packaging is sort of annoying, it's sort of
"half way there," and makes it difficult to use effectively.

The tea is pretty strong, I think this is a function of the bags being
bigger: I get a really strong 16-18oz cup of tea from one bag, which is
a function of bag size, I think. It almost always needs milk, but it's
not a harsh tea, despite it's strength.

In term of flavor, it's interesting deep, rich, which is delightful of
course, but there's a hint of something wooden or smokey--a little
bitter behind the flavor, which is a good move. I think tea needs
something back there to make it unique and to differentiate it from
other teas.

If I weren't looking to switch to loose leaf teas, for most of my
day-to-day tea drinking, I'd probably get this one again in a heart
beat. Since the packaging sucks, and I'm looking to use the loose stuff,
maybe not so much. But if you really like strong dark tea, without any
flavor crap this is really great stuff.

