====
PIDA
====

.. post:: 2009-02-27
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: programming, software, cyborg, technology

A few weeks ago, `a friend <http://identi.ca/pobega>`__ told me about
this IDE (integrated development environment) called
`PIDA <http://pida.co.uk/>`__, and while I'm nothing more than a casual
programmer, my interest was immediately piqued.

We'll call it part of my interest in how programmers work. The truth is,
as a text-editor junkie, my impulse is to say "meh, IDEs are passe," but
I think that's probably unfair, and in my `writing IDE
post <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/writing-ide/>`__ I think I
recognized--by analogy--their worth. In any-case there's something sort
of nifty about PIDA: rather than recreate tools, it just makes use of
what's already there: the editor is emacs (or vim), the version control
system is whatever you want (and already use). PIDA just brings all
these things together in a nifty little package.

On the one hand, it's not a really big deal. Cobbling together working
software from a bunch of different existing tools isn't particularly
new. This is sort of the basis of unix-like computing, and further more
it tracks the ways most people/geeks actually use computers: by finding
the best tools for all of the jobs they have to do and then using them.
This way of interacting seems to hold true for command-line and
graphical users, I think. So rather than recreate the wheel, PIDA just
uses all the existing wheels. The saddest part is that we don't see more
things like this in the graphical application world.

The end result of this mode of application development is that we're
given/build powerful tools that function in familiar ways *and* that are
more powerful as a result of their integrations.

And that's about it.

I initially thought that this was going to be a really long and really
blathering post about integrated tools, and the power of open
source/free software to allow tools to be combined rather than be forced
to compete. While these are indeed important issues, they're pretty self
explanatory, and IDEs like PIDA provide a great example of how this can
be the case, so much so that I find myself saying "why aren't there more
programs like this?"

Why not indeed?

