=====================
Procrastination? What
=====================

.. post:: 2007-03-18
   :author: tychoish

The truth of the matter is that I've had a rather wretched week. I had a
lot of writing complied into a relatively short period of time. This
feat of poor planning was made worse by the fact that I was just coming
off of spring break, and I also received some ultimately positive news
from graduate school. While I don't think the weeks work was for nought,
I did feel as if I was dead out of steam by Wednesday morning, and thus
my week was very front heavy. In addition to some dread regarding a
decision about graduate school that I hope I don't have to make, I also
faced some dread regarding a project presentation for class Monday
afternoon.

I had about fifty minutes to discuss with my classmates, a topic of my
choice, and as I'm sure some of you probably know from my
`twitter <http://twitter.com/tychoish>`__, the topic was death.
Particularly existentialism/issues in psychotherapy, but I'm also
covering some of the work on Mortality Salience/terror management theory
(which is nifty because it makes it possible to talk about defense
mechanisms in an empirically derived framework, for those of you who
care), and also a bit about grief. But that's not really the important
thing.

The thing is that this is that one of the aforementioned papers of doom
was also for this class, and it was painful and soul sucking to write.
(Who knew, I could write so much about so little? I suppose you, dear
readers have been on to this for a long time, but I'd been mostly left
out of the loop). So I was, red-cent to say the least. Well the upshot,
I was a home body for a few days and read some stuff and did some fairly
low stress writing on an outline. The upshot. I have a presentation
sketched out and I'm more or less done. I'll sit around and read a
little more so that I'm better able to answer questions and expand on a
few points, but for the most part, yeah. This is a little weird.

The other weird part of having this presentation so written out? I just
have to make things a bit more prosy, and bam! I'm marking out time on
Wednesday morning to turn this into a term paper. That'll learn me. I
had been saying that I lost my newly found work ethic as I was basically
sitting around and drooling on tuesday and wednesday, but maybe I just
bent it out of practice a little bit.

This being a morning person thing is weird.

I'll be back with more teleological entries soon, and sorry everyone for
the onslaught. The next couple of knitting entries are pretty cool, but
the real meat comes later, and word on the street is that pictures might
happen soon.

Best, tycho

