===========
Productions
===========

.. post:: 2007-11-13
   :author: tychoish

I did a networking email exchange this morning. Woot, being productive.
I also asked a professor for a letter of recomendation. I realize that I
was expecting one of my letters to come from a former former advisor
that hadn't had me in class in a long time, and wasn't really connected
to the work I was interested in doing these days. The new letter writer
is much more connected with what I've done recently (they had me in two
classes last semester) and I think we have a pretty good rapport.

I've also filled out the form and written the check to get transcripts
for this application cycle.

I did some reading and some other stuff, but have generally feel pretty
unproductive.

Oh wait, I did get some minor edits done on two chapters of the novel.
This leaves three more chapters to do. I'm going to go over the ending
to see if I can frame it a little more clearly, but I don't think I'm
going to change it much, between this and the next draft, because all
the responses have been pretty spot-on, even if people say "wait a
second." So I'm going to give it time, and I think after it hits the
second round of readers, it'll be good enough to start sending out to
editors/publishers.

One thing that I need to do, is to work on notes and what all of our 6th
grade english teachers called "pre-writing." I'm pretty good at being
productive, as long as I've spent even the merest amounts of time
thinking through things first. I just need to spend some time with the
moleskine.

I've also been spinning a bunch. I've done about 4 of a total 6 oz of
some tencel-merino in something approaching jumper weight. I swear to
you, if I spun a pound of this, I'd have a sweater. Interestingly this
is my entire fiber stash. Which is appropriate because I'm just using
`my mother's <http://www.twitter.com/momtron/>`__ wheel until sell some
more spinning related things and can afford a wheel of my own again. I
like spinning and think that I need to figure out how to work this into
my routine.

In terms of knitting, I've done about 3-3.5 inches on my sweater, and I
think I'm going to go back to sleeve knitting after I knit another 3-3.5
inches while I figure out how far I want to set in the shoulders. After
a bunch of meandering about, I still have no clue what my next project
is going to be.

Anyway. Cheers!

