=======================================
Productivity Blogging and Effectiveness
=======================================

.. post:: 2008-12-17
   :author: tychoish

For the past few years I've had a `productivity
tag <http://tychoish.com/tags/productivity>`__ to organize/centralize
all of the thinking and writing I've been doing on topics related to how
we work. User experience stuff and technology, work-flow management and
design, "life hacks," stuff about the processes of writing, and so
forth.

The truth is that the "productivity" blogging niche is pretty big.
`LifeHacker <http://lifehacker.com/>`__,
`43Folders <http://www.43folders.com>`__, and many other smaller blogs
seem to address these issues with a greater attention to detail than I
am able to muster. Also while I think it's interesting, and useful to
deliberate on these issues, there's little--if any--intrinsic interest
in this kind of thing. Outside of the human factors engineering aspects,
which I think I'm probably the only one who geeks out on that stuff.

My other issue with doing "productivity" blogging, is that I don't
really feel like we need to be any more productive. This article about
`the relationship between productivity and standards of
living <http://users.ipfw.edu/ruflethe/american.html>`__, has weighed on
my mind a lot in the past couple of months. The challenge shouldn't be
how we can be "more productive," because we're already pretty damn
productive, but rather how can we be more effective at accomplishing the
things that we want to do.

This is a problem that writers or "wanna be writers" seem to have most
often. After a certain point the issue isn't that we don't have time (a
problem that can be solved with priorities and being more productive in
our other tasks), or skill based (writing is tough, but it's also a
learning process and after a while one starts to get it) but rather how
to use the time that we have to write *effectively* on the projects that
are important to us. I suspect other types of creative folk experience
this in different ways.

Where as productivity seems to focus around the conversion from raw time
to whatever the output is, I think effectivity is more about how
enviroment, stress management, sleep management, and project planning
combine and interact to make it easier for creative types to "do their
work." A lot of the lifehacks that are popular these days, focus on how
to get more functionality out of your computer, or how to multi-task
more efficently, or organize your todo lists better. And so forth.

In contrast, I think "Effectivness-based lifehacks," would revolve
around how to manage your sleep more effectively, or how to order your
routine so that you have enough "down time" to recharge so that you can
be effective durring your "up time."

I'm not proposing anything new that I don't think happens already, but I
think there's a big distinction between these approaches to personal
organization and workflow, and I'm throwing my hat in the pile behind a
focus on effective rather than productive behaviors.

So there.

