===================
Project Orientation
===================

.. post:: 2012-12-2
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: update

(*or my latest attempt to do things in a more "project oriented way."*)

This post is about recent projects, projects that I'm working on, and
how my work has changed in recent months.

A couple of weeks ago, I finally posted all of the content that I've
been working on for the new, revived `Cyborg
Institute <HTTP://cyborginstitute.org/>`__. While the `book on systems
administration <http://cyborginstitute.org/projects/administration>`__
itself had been mostly done for a while, I'd delayed for two reasons:

1. I wanted to have a couple of other projects completed to demonstrate
that the Institute as a project wasn't just isolated to book-like
objects.

2. I wanted to have some infrastructure in place to be able to *sanely*
publish the Institute site without using some gnarly content
management system. [1]_

The end result is that in addition to the book, I've put together a few
other projects and documentation. The more exciting thing is that I
might *do more things* like this in the future.

In addition to a lot of day-job work--forthcomming releases and team
growth are eating a lot of my time--I've been working on a series of
wiki pages (and related blog posts,) that address "[[information
debt\|technical-writing/information-debt]]" that happens when
organizations don't put resources and energy into maintaining resources
and "knoweldge." Expect to hear more on this topic.

--------------

The truth is that I really like working on bigger projects. Writing blog
posts and participating in online conversations has been very rewarding
to me over the past ~10 years, I feel like I've hit a wall: I've written
~830,000 words on tychoish.com, and am frustrated that there's not a lot
to show for it:

- readership is steady, even increasing, but not inspiring,

- I don't actually want to work as a blogger, and

- most importantly the work I've done here doesn't really build to
  anything more than a half-dozen or so blog posts.

  While there are themes throughout all of the posts, the work isn't very
  rigorous, and it lacks a certain kind of depth.

  So here I am, writing books-like objects things about technology that I
  hope are and will be useful for both technical and non-technical
  audiences, as well as compiling the little things that I hack on for
  other people to improve and benefit fromm, and writing fiction (that I
  may try and publish conventionally, but I may end up self-publishing
  using a similar proccess.) The goal is to:

- Write things with more rigor, including better citations and
  research.

- Work on projects that address topics more comprehensively.

- Produce, document, and maintain scripts and other programs that I
  write rather than endlessly critique existing tools and approaches.
  In short, less talking about stuff and more *making stuff*.

Let's see how this goes!

.. [1] All content management systems are gnarly.
