===================
Protect My Marriage
===================

.. post:: 2003-10-11
   :author: tychoish

I have mixed feeling about the whole gay marriage debate. On the one
hand, I really support gay marriage and how I would very much like to
live in a society that would allow me to marry in the manner of my
choice. On the other hand, as gay youth, marriage isn't something that's
incredibly important to me at this point. I'm supportive, but I don't
feel like this is my fight, given my situation. My other feeling about
the fight for gay marriage is that it's lead by a certain group of
people whose hearts may not be in the right place.

A friend of mine once said that the HRC, which is the de facto leader of
the mainstream fight for gay marriage, is a group of white gay men who
don't what their sexuality to interfere with their other assorted
privileges. They're not homophobic, granted, but I don't feel they're
inclusive of non-gay queers, and I think that's a *real* problem. I've
been known to say, that I haven't heard an argument for gay marriage (or
similar HRC issue), that I disagree with. Granted, some are better than
others but that doesn't mean that on some level they are all right. The
other thing I don't like about the HRC is that it's fairly indifferent
towards gay youth. Organizationally, I can see why this is the case, but
at the same time I don't approve.

Having gay sex legalized, legitimizes the culture, and that's something
that is unbelievably important, but having marriage rights are a really
logical extension. It's also an extension that is desperately needed. At
least right now, I think that the gay rights like marriage are going to
be won in the courts rather than in the legislatures, because it's a
hard issue to pull the politicians around, but the issues have fairly
sound legal arguments. Perhaps the courts aren't the best venue to
achieve social justice victories, but since it's the only venue, it'll
have to do.

The other thing about gay marriage that gets left out too much is that
ultimately the issue is a matter of church and state. Religion has the
right to dictate what happens within their faith, but they don't have
the right to dictate the policy and behavior of this government. Let the
religions marry whomever they want or don't want, but it's not the
business of the church to dictate who the state marries. And the fact
that secularist activists haven't joined forces with the gay marriage
movement, is quite troubling.

So regardless, Bush has declared a Marriage Protection week. I'm
appalled, and there's no other way to say it. I mean really now, how
dare he. **How dare he?!?** It's appalling for all the normal, "marriage
is about heterosexuality" reasons, but it's also appalling that he has
associated breading with marriage, when this isn't even a truth in
heterosexual relationships. Thus, he's extremely short sited or he's
downright malicious, and I'm willing to bet on the later.

Bush has every right to believe whatever he wants about marriage,
queers, African-Americans, Jewish folks, Asian American's, Disabled
people, youth, Hispanics, Arabs, and women. I'm betting that, his
beliefs are *wrong,* but anyone who really wants to remain ignorant and
blind to truth in the world certainly may; ultimately it's his loss.
What Bush *does not* is impose his ignorance onto the rest of us. Well
he does have the right to do that, but it's AMORAL. I mean really what's
worse, me and queers everywhere falling in love (and having sex), or
Bush degrading the lives and love of fellow humans?

