=========
Pseudonym
=========

.. post:: 2007-12-18
   :author: tychoish

I've talked about the subject of `pseudonyms before
here <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/pseudonyms-and-bitch-phd/>`__ and my
recent discussions with `dave <http://www.soliloqueer.com>`__ about
`blogging these
days <http://tychoish.com/2007/12/journaling-instinct/>`__ have sort of
brought this subject up again. So here we are.

I've always thought that the idea of pen names, which I suppose is
really want I'm talking about here, are pretty cool. Because of the way
that draw attention to the role of the writer without necessarily
drawing attention to a particular writer. As a scholar (to be) of
identity production and development, I think the use pseudonyms is
particularly fascinating: even if it would be difficult to envision a
formal research project (in the empirical sense) that would look at
pseudonyms.

I've also long enjoyed the Internet custom of using handles and
nicknames to operate under. This is something that I think a bunch of
early cyberpunk picked up on, and something that was true on the real
Internet, at least for a while. People still use handles, but they're
less like a mask and more like a badge. As far as I can see; context
matters, of course.

For a long time I was big on using my "real" name online for TealArt and
for other projects. It's a unique enough name and I had/have little to
hide, so it seemed like a good idea. More recently I've become a little
bit more concerned about controlling what turns up on google under my
name. At this point, in the first ten, I only have one link, (at number
4) and it's old enough that it won't reflect poorly on me in the future.
It's old enough that in six to ten years when it *really* matters,
people might not even think to connect me with that link.

And so for these reasons I am using and continue to use a pseudonym.
Also, my academic projects and my internet/fiction writing projects are
pretty separate, at least in my mind. I mean that's not true, the reason
I've been able to get back into fiction writing is because I can draw on
social science stuff on a conceptual level, but being successful as a
blogger/sf writer and being successful as a social scientist, and quite
possibly the former could impede on the later. As I get further into
both the bogging project and the fiction writing, the more it seems to
make sense that sort of stick to a pseudonym.

Changing names is hard, particularly, when in a very real sense
"marketing" is an issue, which is compounded by my additional project of
a layer of anonymity. I mean choosing a pen name also draws attention to
that (as
`this <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/pseudonyms-and-bitch-phd/>`__ draws
attention to), but I think that's kind of cool.

Anyway. tycho garen it is.

See y'all around.

Onward and Upward!

