=================
\tQueer By Choice
=================

.. post:: 2007-11-26
   :author: tychoish

So this entry is likely going to get me in trouble. Warning made.

**Background:** There's a thread that's now 100+ postings long on the
queer group on `Ravelry <http://www.ravlery.com>`__ that debates the
very old news website `queer by
choice <http://www.queerbychoice.com/>`__. At the beginning of the
thread I participated on the side of choice because: promoting agency is
a good thing, because a insinuating that sexuality is a choice means
that it becomes harder to deal with it as a pathology, because it lets
queer be a flexible/mobile category that's more inclusive. I've mostly
ignored it.

More recently there's been some coalescence in the thread that basically
amounts to "you can choose your politics, but you can't choose who you
really *are*, dude."

Which of course misunderstands the argument completely, and leaves us
with, what amounts to a sort of strategic constructivism? Is that what
we'd even call it? It's pretty weird, at any rate.

I'm trying to not get too into this stuff, as it is, in a sense "work
stuff" so I don't want to bore with the details, but, there's a notion
of "strategic essentialism," in contemporary queer studies/identity,
particularly around trans identities, mostly because its important to
draw a line somewhere and throw up your hands in front of sophists and
say "it might not be perfect, but lets just say that there's something
essential about gender, so we can proceed with a political action, or
our lives." I propose that what we're seeing in this thread (and I
suspect that this thread is not a particular anomaly,) is the opposite
of this some how.

The problem is that the debate, in such circumstances degenerates into
sophistry, which I never really like. Also, in the final analysis, I
think it's important to have some sort of understanding of a false
consciousness, that we're all enraptured by, when it comes to gender; so
the dozens of people saying "Nah, I didn't choose, you *hippie*," are
particularly infuriating. And I know how difficult it is to invoke false
consciousness, but still people.

Anyway, rant over, for now.

Onward and Upward!

