=============
Queer Moments
=============

.. post:: 2007-09-07
   :author: tychoish

1
-

I was in class today and we were talking about cognitive categorization
heuristics, with relationship to various similar phenome sounds (voiced
verses unvoiced consonants ie. /d/ vs. /t/ or /w/ vs. /v/). But the
professor referenced the example of a talk that a visiting professor
gave the previous semester regarding the limits of intelligibility of
"bisexuality," because of the difficulty of categorizing the
intermediate spaces and non-binary configurations.

Anyway, In the description of this the prof stumbled over the word
"heterosexual" or "straight" (I think she was deciding which to say). So
of course, I, without looking up from my knitting (*I was in a tough
spot!*) say "The rest of y'all," drawled out for effect, I think, but I
might have resorted to a more Pittsburgh "the rest of yous," I don't
remember. I think it got a chuckle, but the knitting was more
enthralling at the moment.

I'm pretty quiet, and while I'm sure there weren't a lot of (any?)
people who had missed the queer memo, I keep to my self, and my
classmates don't really know who I am, so I felt a little awkward for a
moment (it passes quick, thankfully,) when I realized that I had put
myself out there in front of a group of people that I don't really know.

2
-

In another class we were having a discussion of Nora Ephron's *I Feel
Bad About My Neck*, and adult development and aging. At some point there
was a thread of the conversation where the discussion turned to the the
connection/impact that relationships had with the aging process.

At this juncture a couple of student talked a little bit about the
challenges and impact that being queer had on this thought. Now while
the class had a few moments of gratuitous "sharing," these stories were
pretty restrained and totally appropriate. While no one articulated it
in these terms I think it's an interesting issue: queer relationships
aren't the same as straight ones, and perhaps the lack of
institutionalized marriage exposes the fallacy of long term monogamy, or
something. I dunno, there's a paper in there for someone, but in any
case, while I might have nodded and smiled along, I didn't really say
anything, despite sort of wanting to "join rank." as it were. Which felt
almost as awkward as the moment in the first class.
