================
reading progress
================

.. post:: 2009-04-27
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: science-fiction, reading

I finished reading Jonathan Strahan's *The Starry Rift* Anthology the
other day. This was the first anthology that I read from cover to cover
(I'm trying to get more into short stories). I've read other anthologies
in bits and pieces, and the odd short here and there, but with this
book, I thought, that I needed to add a bit of breadth, and I respect
Strahan's work a lot, so I gave it a go. And I quite enjoyed it.

I think that I'll read more anthologies in this fashion in the future.
The momentum and immersion of reading a novel is something that I enjoy
a lot, and have had a hard time replicating when I'm reading short
stories, but I figure this can be learned. I feel like I learned a bunch
from the stories, both about the discourse and craft of short story
writing.

--------------

I've also picked up *Blue Mars* by Kim Stanley Robinson. While I guess I
read *Red Mars* years ago for school, I never really got into it. Or so
I thought. As I've read these books again, I'm surprised and fascinated
to learn how much they've influenced my writing and the way I think
about science fiction world building and dealing with future
possibilities.

And the books are really well done. In the last few days, I've read
about a third of the last book (which is big in comparison to the other
two,) and I'll likely have read even more by the time I get around to
posting this. After that, on to more Delany or another anthology.

--------------

My goal, I guess, insofar as I have one, is to get to a point where I
can read a book a week, give or take. I'm not a particularly fast reader
by default but I think as I read less than I'd like (perhaps) I've
slowed down. Gotta change that.

