========================================
Reading And Consuming Hyper(digital)text
========================================

.. post:: 2007-03-23
   :author: tychoish

By the very fact that you're reading this weblog now, it's clear that
this isn't your first exposure to digital text, or to hypertext, so I
think by hook or by crook we've all adapted to reading text on the
computer. What I want to think about here, with you at the moment is not
so much "how to read" hypertext, but rather, how hypertext changes the
way we read and interact with text. So for our purposes in this
discussion I'm going to take the term "text" and "hypertext" to mean the
digital representation of letters and words on a computer; perhaps this
was obvious to you, but I've been living with English Majors and
cultural studies folks for long enough that I feel the clarification is
worthwhile.

I've long said that the digital text or hypertext presents a number of
key features in contrast to "dead tree" text. Hypertext is searchable,
easily replicated, easily referenced, and easily modified for a maximum
degree of accessible. These are all, too my mind, *good things.*

One of the common design assumptions of presenting text on the internet
has been to just throw text on a page in long swaths of text. Though
various organization or heading levels are theoretically useful for
organizing texts, these features are frequently not used uniformly and
can sometimes be hard for the eye to find. The quick move to digital
text, got removed a couple of very important features of printed/hard
copy text: defined column width and the page to constrain the
presentation of text, and the organizational factor of the chapter or
section. The act of looking at a page of text in a book or a magazine
requires a completely different mindset from looking at a web-page. But
this isn't a call to return to old ways of reading, but rather a call to
re-think the way that we consume hypertext.

For instance, one thing I've realized is that weblog entries work better
when they're about 750 words, and vertical columns of text work best
when you don't have to scroll up and down to read adjacent columns.
While my current goal of keeping all the entries each of my current
TealArt series under 1000 words, helps (I think) make these easier to
read, the issue that I'm struggling with--and I think this is a key
issue of reading on a computer screen--is the idea that we are
completely to scroll down and down forever, but less willing to scroll
side to side for additional programs. I think the program
`Tofu <http://amarsagoo.info/tofu/index.shtml>`__, for OS X is a welcome
advancement, but in general we need to put some thought in to this.

I also don't want to subsume a concern regarding length in a discussion
of text presentation, nor do I want to collapse a discussion about what
kind of forms work best for the internet, into a discussion of
"shrinking attention spans" in the digital age. Not only would this not
be particularly constructive, I think that the issue is that we can't
assume that "print" content will function the same way digitally that it
will on pulp.

So for example, I don't think that "click next" page options like the
way that the `New York Times <http://www.nytimes.com/>`__ presents its
articles is quite the answer either. And to be fair, I don't know that
there are concrete answers to any of the issues that I'm presenting
here, other than "we need to think about reading behavior some more."

My last thought on the subject (for this week) bridges the border
between reading and writing,which I hope to cover next time. This is the
issues of citationality, more simple than just a pagination issue, one
of the things that we are able to do as readers of pulp is say. "X
passage, located *here* in a text," but because the location of
particular passages in hypertext is more fluid, we can't do this. I'll
speak more to the academic/scholorly impact of this on writing next
time, but in a sense the difficulty of conversational citationality
(lets call it, for now) in hypertext, definitely affects how we interact
with words on our computers.

I'll see you all next week, and I'm fully aware that this is a topic
that deserves a little more than a laundry list of complaints. Keep this
in mind, because I hope that next week's discussion of writing will help
resolve some of these concerns and ideas. Stay tuned!

Read Well, tycho(ish)

