==============
Reading Habits
==============

.. post:: 2009-12-29
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: reading, cyborg

I bought a Kindle. I am weak.

(*Note*: I drafted this post early last week, and it arrived last
Wednesday, and I started using it in earnest over the weekend.
Nevertheless, this post is written from the perspective of my past
self.)

In any case, there are a number of questions that you may be asking
yourself at this juncture.

**ZOMG That's a lot of DRM that you've signed up for. How does that make
you feel?**

I'm not wild about it. I mostly view the DRMed kindle stuff as: not as a
collection, but rather as a convince for reading specific texts on
demand and as needed. And on those terms, I can live with it. There's
all sorts of things wrong with what I'm about to say but: DRM is most
onerous if you think that the files you download are "your possessions."
Because they aren't. When it's just a dinky file that you have the
ability to read in a *highly* convenient way, that's easier to swallow.
Having said that, if you're not buying something that you get to keep
the books as they are now are too expensive.

I'm about 100 pages into the book I'm currently reading (it rocks, more
on this later) and I picked it up the other day to discover that the
cats had helpfully chewed the back corner. This isn't the first time
this has happened. While I don't *really* care, I can still read it,
part of reason I don't seem to care is that the quality of books as
objects these days doesn't particularly impress me. So I don't feel like
I'm loosing anything. And if I want a real book-object, such a thing can
be had.

**I have a suspicion that you have more than a few paper books that you
haven't read. What are you going to do with them now?**

Read them. I don't think that I'll stop reading paper books, though I
think a great deal depends on context. I suspect that I might not take
paper-books out of the house very much. I don't have *a lot* of books,
but I certainly have a few, and I know that I mostly have them with me
for nostalgia, and not because I actually intend to read them any time
soon.

Paper books, on my shelf, represent possibilities, in a way that the
object of the Kindle is a possibility. I think even considering the
limitations of the Kindle, these two truisms balance each-other out.

**How do you think you'll use the kindle?**

I think once the initial buzz of the Kindle wears off, I'll probably
settle into a rhythm whereby I'll read periodicals, fiction, and
documents that I generate (along the lines of slush) on the Kindle along
with anything I read out of the house, and then read reference material
off of paper. I'm mostly worried about how the kindle might screw with
my--often quite good--spatial memory for texts. We'll have to see how
this develops.

I'm strongly considering joining a gym in the next few weeks and I
hope/expect to read whilst doing the aerobic thing. The kindle seems
ideal for this.

**I hear your a slow reader, is this really worthwhile?**

Perhaps, and I think that my main issue is that I'm really bad at
setting aside time to read when I'm awake enough to actually read. This
is separate issue from the Kindle, and one I suspect I'll address in
future posts. Having said that, I'm attempting to carve out a bit more
time for reading in my day--as reading more is a personal goal--so I'd
say that yes: Despite my apparent slow pace, a Kindle is worthwhile.

--------------

Do you have any Kindle related questions for me?

