===============
Reading Updates
===============

.. post:: 2008-06-20
   :author: tychoish

Haven't done a reading update in a while. But I've been reading. This
weeks, reading update is very technologically involved. Keeping track of
how much I'm reading is part of my New Years resolution (and reading
more by-proxy) so this post falls into that vein.

I read John Scalzi's *Old Man's War* in ebook last week. I'm not
typically a Scalzi fanboy, and I think I became fully aware of him for
the first time in the last year, as a result of listening to something
`PNH <http://www.neilsonhayden.com>`__ said somewhere. Sorry for the
vague details. I really enjoyed the book, in any case, and I'll probably
read the next few soon. I've always been sort of ambivalent about
Scalzi's online persona, not quite sure why; the fiction is pretty damn
good.

I've also opened, but not really gotten into `Tobias
Buckell <http://www.tobiasbuckell.com/>`__'s *Crystal Rain,* soon.

More interestingly, I think, I've been working through a backlog of
`Strange Horizon's <http://www.strangehorizons.com/>`__ stories that I
bookmarked a while ago on my iPod Touch (part of my recent computer
upgrade) which is great for reading whilst eating or whatever. I really
look forward to the next release of the software update in a few weeks,
offline readers, better syncing and what not seems like a pretty good
deal.

Anyway, I'm reading a series of short stories about fantastic cities by
`Benjamin Rosenbaum <http://www.benjaminrosenbaum.com/>`__, whose work
I'm quite fond of. These stories, are quite short--I'd be inclined to
call them flash fiction--and they remind me of a more serious `Alien's
You Will Meet <http://aliensyouwillmeet.libsyn.com/>`__. They're both
second person, they're both short, they're both cataloging an imaginary
and an open-ended collection of objects. I'm on the fourth, I think, and
I have to say that I really like the way that it melds the sort of
alternate history/divided united states genre with a series of stories
that at least appears to catalogue something that doesn't exist--and
thus explores a sense of wonder in the utterly banal. I had a roommate
(Hi H.! I hope I described that well enough!) who was interested in
something that, felt from where I was sitting pretty similar. And cool.

What are you reading?

