=============
reading trust
=============

.. post:: 2009-04-29
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: reading

As I was reviewing the note I posted on my `reading
progress <http://tychoish.com/posts/reading-progress/>`__, realized
that there was yet another piece of my effort to read more/better that I
failed to cover there, but it's substantive enough to merit it's own
post. The issue? Trust.

I was having a conversation with H. the other day, about reading and how
we often find texts difficult to read when it seems like other people
have a much easier time reading. Which is kind of funny because we both
derive a large part of our self-identity (if not income) from our
writing and we both read a lot.

One thing I suggested in the course of that conversation which I had
theretofore not properly articulate was that I found writing difficult
because I've read a lot of difficult stuff around the edges of
philosophy and theory that are pretty complex where every word is
(seemingly) meaningful. In the process of learning how to read this I've
learned to not trust myself to understand the words and sentences, to be
wary of authorial intentions, and to be afraid of missing important
details.

Which is, as you might imagine, not that easy. And it requires slow
reflexive reading. So it sort of feels like you're not reading something
as much as you are watching yourself read something.

So my new goal, is not to read faster, I guess, but rather to read less
reflexively. To trust that texts have some sort of intentional order
that I can understand, and then trust myself to be able to grasp the
gestalt of a text (and to read it a second time if I need to,) without
supervision or self-monitoring.

At least some of the time.

