======================
Respecting Other Forms
======================

.. post:: 2002-12-21
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing, literature, tealart

(**Editor's Note:**\ Another short piece I wrote for school about my
writing ability and the character of my writing strenghts and
weeknesses. Here because we need content. Hopefully this will be over
soon.)

I am a fiction writer who dabbles in nonfiction essays and articles; or
maybe I am an article and essay writer who dabbles in fiction. In either
case, it's fairly clear that I am not a poet or a dramatist. It could be
a lack of skill, experience, or talent. More likely, this pitfall in my
ability is due to divine will rather than anything under my control.
Some peopleóincluding meóare not capable of to write poetry or drama.

To say that I can't write poetry isn't to say that I'm physically or
mentally incapable of writing in verse; however, I haven't been able to
amass any evidence that I am capable of writing poetry, and not for any
lack of effort. Numerous times I've tried, and tried to write poetry,
I've worked with a great deal of dedication without producing one poem
that fills my definition of good poetry: a group of words that sends a
message that is somehow larger than the words on the sheet of paper. I
am somehow incapable of doing this.

Unlike poetry, my chances of ever writing drama are not quite as dire.
With a great deal of time, effort, planning, and blood letting, it is
conceivable that I could write and/or produce scripts that would at
least equal the quality of my prose. Despite a familiarity with the
form, I have yet to find success writing scripts with a satisfactory
similarity to the picture in my mind's eye. This isn't to say that a
work needs to end up exactly like the creator foresaw, but the work
needs to maintain a certain continuity with the authors evolving vision.

Just because I haven't been able to write a good script, and because I
doubt I'll ever be able to write a poem, I don't hold any ill regard for
either of these forms. In fact, good drama and poetry has a greater
influence on my prose than the novels and short stories that I absorb.
Quality poetry has the ability to express a message in the purest most
beautiful form. Almost every good script, produced or not, can boil a
plot into the most visual and descriptive form with minimum use of
adjectives and adverbs. The lessons learned in story telling from drama,
and the lessons about language learned through poetry transfers nicely
into other forms, such as the fiction and non-fiction prose I write. I
can only hope that some of this genius is rubbing off on me.

