===================
restaging conflicts
===================

.. post:: 2008-02-23
   :author: tychoish

Ok, I have one more interview/call that I'm going to make right after I
post this entry, but otherwise, I have to say that I think it went
really well. And I think my chances are pretty good, all things
considered. Nothing is for sure yet, but I'm encouraged.

Just as a check in on "the current state of tycho," I'd say that I'm
feeling a *ton* better. Still anxious a bit, but *not* really worried.
Particularly. Which is good. I'm so close, and I really want some sort
of closure in this area. I'll keep you all posted, and I've posted some
more detailed explanation in semi-accessible public spaces (face-book
walls/lj comments/twitter), but I fear that this *particular* page is to
heavily indexed, so I'm not going to go into detail here.

I'm still sort of ornery about my knitting. I have a sweater that needs
sleeves, and I really haven't been pleased with how my knitting has
turned out for most of the past year. Basically since I graduated from
college, everything I've started blows. I haven't had a *winning*
sweater yet. Which *sucks*. So I've been reduced to knitting socks,
(which also aren't turning out well, but there's less investment there.)

I have a sweater that needs sleeves, and then I'm going to make a really
simple, hard to screw up, pullover with some yarn that I just got. And
I'm going to work on one project at a time. (Ok, so not one project at a
time, really, but 1 main project, and a pair of socks, and a couple of
long term projects in hibernation.) That's where I am at the moment.

In other news, Now that things are starting to settle down, I think I'm
going to try and get closer to going to visit folk in nearby cities,
because I haven't and I should.

I'll try and post something non-ego centric today, I swear.

Onward and Upward!

