==========================================================
Rethinking GTD: Review (and A Little Rant About Footnotes)
==========================================================

.. post:: 2007-02-24
   :author: tychoish

Hi Everyone. I hope this weekend finds you all well. And I hope you find
the little revision to tealart that we've undergone in the past few days
well too. (how's that for an opening?) I'm sure that I'll do a little
more explaining over the next few days. Worry not and enjoy.

I was going to write this week about the importance of regular reviews a
la GTD regarding the maintenance of a productive system. And I'll say a
few, brief things here

GTD promises a sort of a better "stress-free" living through recording
and full proof living. It's true that the less you have to worry about
weather or not you remembered to do x, y, or z there is more "you" to go
around when you're actually doing x, y, or z. Great idea. It is however,
my contention that, the reason this works, is that GTD asks users to
take various and regular time outs to reflect on their process. So
rather than worry about your process a little bit all the time, schedule
times to worry about your process all at once and get it done with.
Great idea. One needn't produce nifty contextual lists and adhere
faithfully to the two minute rule (if you have a task that can be done
in less than two minutes, do it now) and so forth. What is important is
that every once and a while you give yourself the opportunity to say
"what am I doing, and what do I need to be doing;" look over your lists
and make sure things haven't changed. The important thing is to make
sure that your "system" or method hasn't been broken by the "doing." And
as always, flexibility is important: if all the parts of your system
aren't adding up, then change it.

Though I don't think GTD works for me, or that my process fits that
model, I really do enjoy the fact that it's out there--because it's
prevalence drives people to think up some rather amazing solutions to
issues that I've dealt with for quite a while. The communities at
43folders (and other sites as well) has been an amazing resource as I've
become more reflexive about these issues in the last few weeks and
months.

**Footnoes** So I promised a little bit of a rant about footnotes. Much
to a particular professor's annoyance I've taken a rather hard line
stand against Microsoft Office products. I've found that they're not
particularly suited to running on the Mac, and the benefit that they
offer is appallingly small. Additionally, I find it hard to interact
with a PDF document that I'm discussing in my writing, and an open word
document at the same time. It can be a pain, that's for sure.

But this is a rant about footnotes, not Microsoft Word; well it is about
MS Word, insomuch as I have to keep Microsoft Word around because there
are typographical features that I would love to have access to that, as
near as I can tell, Microsoft has a strangle hold on. Footnotes are one
of them, headers are another, but a much less important one to my mind
at this point.

At the moment, I generally write the OS X Rich Text service (think the
default TextEdit, but piped through VoodooPad or whatever other program
I'm working in,) and then prepare the document for "completion" using a
quick trip through MS Word, which I output as a PDF file, to get all of
the "publishing features" and avoid having to work in

In certain respects, footnotes in particular is a typographical feature
that I think many expect is on it's way out, and as a result there isn't
a lot of support this kind feature. Also, since most academics are too
busy, being academics, and not designing software, there aren't many
options, beyond of course Microsoft.

So I'm at a loss with regards what to do. I've considered (and even
installed all that I need to do to start producing documents using
LaTeX/TeX, but that is *compleatly* overkill: I'm never going to have an
equation in my work, and while I think LaTeX documents are incredibly
pretty, learning *another* complex markup language with features that I
will *never* use. I hope/expect that the next version of Markdown will
have some sort of support for footnote text, but I'm not sure that this
will work out particularly well either but I can definitely wait on this
one until it actually happens.

But yes, anyway. I want a good footnote solution that is mainly operable
within RTF and (even minimally) markuped plain text files. Sigh. If
anyone has any briliant solutions that I've overlooked that would be
awesome. In any case, until next time, stay well.

Cheers, tycho(ish)

