===========================================================
Rethinking GTD: Production Times and &#8220;the Zone&#8221;
===========================================================

.. post:: 2007-02-03
   :author: tychoish

Hello folks!

I'm back once again for our little weekly series on productivity. It
seems I'm a lot better at writing for TealArt, when I have this modest
weekly column. Once upon a time I wrote weekly columns for another
website, and while they were crappy, I think I did well with that form.
I think I'll probably stick with my TealArt writing in this format. I
still have 3-4 more topics for this series, but we'll pick something
interesting after that, and an associated rambing or two, but I think on
the whole I'm a bit too long winded at TealArt for bloging in the
typical sense to work. Just to share, I also think that while I'm
terribly interested in what I do durring the day, writing for TealArt is
at it's best when I'm not mashing through half baked ideas from my day.
It's happier for all of us.

So my little discussion about productivity and rethinking GTD for this
week, is shorter and about scheduling to your/our strengths.

As I said last time, GTD is all about getting all the pieces together to
make it possible for you to do everything you need to do when you can.
I've called this the "on the go" phenomena. This view of productivity
assumes that given enough time, and the completion of pre-requsite
tasks, you should be able to get anything on your list done at any free
moment.

Simply put, this is wrong. At least for people who do the kinds of
things I do (students, academics, writers, and so forth), it feels like
there are windows of opportunity in which certain tasks can be done. For
instance, you may set aside an hour after you get done with
class/work/meetings to write an essay, and by the time you're done with
these activities, you're too wound up, or exhausted, or frankly just not
up-to writing the essay; however, if you had used the hour before the
meeting/class/work to work on the essay, you would have been more
successful. Sometimes, if you're in a stuck place, or trying to do
something when you're not ready, a little reboot--like taking a shower,
a walk, or a snack, can help.

We all have, what I'll call "prime periods of possible productivity, and
I guess my primary argument here is to resist the tendency of many
productivity systems to fight these prime periods. Do what you can to
extend, stretch, and maximize what you can get done when you're in the
right zone. To do this, you have to have a good feeling of how you work,
and a sense of what works for you. It means trying lots of different
work situations and times, and being able to pounce on situations that
*aren't* working for you. Take (brief) notes, be reflexive, and be
vigilant. One of the worst things, in my mind, is to work on a
paper/blog/essay that absolutely refuses to be written, because these
kinds of negative experiences make it harder to come back to this paper
later.

Lets think about this like sleep: if you're having trouble falling
asleep, and it's taking longer than it ususally takes you to fall
asleep, generally it seems better to get up and do something else for a
little before trying to sleep again. Think about "doing things" in a
similar way.

This isn't perfect, and there is a fine line between taking a reboot,
and procrastination, but the line between sitting before a blank screen
and a blinking cursor, and actually working. This is where the human
factor comes in to play.

Just to continue the personal case study, I've found that I can pretty
reliably write every morning for about 3 hours, and in that time, I can
get a great deal of work done; more than, I could get done, in say twice
as much time in the evening. So I've worked pretty hard to get up every
day and write for 3 hours, before starting to read, or going to class or
whatever is on my schedule. I've also found that having a couple of
sizable chunks of time, is better than a single block of time, or lots
of bits of time, less than or equal to an hour. The key was learning my
patterns, and then working with them for the best result.

Sometimes we don't have control over what times we can work, and
sometimes deadlines require us to change our pattern: these are
circumstances when borrowing more from a system like GTD or the four
quadrant system mentioned in the comments of the first entry in this
series would help you overcome these challenges. My hope is that with
the date based list organization that I described last time, you can get
a good idea of what needs to be done, and when, so that when you have
your time, all you have to do is look at the list and run with it.

This week rather than try and adapt or adopt something new into your
personal system, take a moment here and there and attempt to understand
how you best (and do your best work), so that you can attempt to create
situations that are the most conducive to these sorts of operations.
This isn't to say that you shouldn't change the way you work if you
think it's not effective, but more simply, that what you do probably
works pretty well, or at least has elements that you can use, and rather
than trying to strong arm your life into a system, take a deep breath
and try and work with what you already have.

Until next time, tycho(ish)

