==================
2011 Retrospective
==================

.. post:: 2012-01-26
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: update, meta

For the most part, I'm quite happy with everything that I was able to
accomplish last year. I've moved cities (for the second year in a row)
and last year I changed jobs *twice*: in both cases, I think the current
will stick for a while. And I'm working on other projects, with some
impressive speed. Last year wasn't been great for finishing things, but
I guess there's room for improvement this year.

After a fair amount of professional angst I'm finally doing pretty much
exactly what I want to be doing: I'm writing a substantial/total
revision of a software manual for a company developing an open source
database system. I'll leave you to figure out the details, but it's
great.

A couple years ago, I said to myself, that I wanted to be a "real
technical writer," which is to say, work with engineering teams, write
documentation and tutorials for a single product or group of products,
and operate on a regular release schedule. I've done a great deal of
writing for technology companies: from project proposals and journalism,
to tutorials and content for distributors, to white papers, marketing,
and sales materials. Delightfully, I've managed to get there, and in
retrospect it's both somewhat amazing, and incredibly delightful.

A while back, I had dinner with a friend who's been doing the same thing
I do for a long time (we know each other through folk dance and
singing,) and by comparing our experiences it was great to learn that my
experience is quite typical, both in terms of the work I'm doing and the
procedural engineering practice frustrations (e.g. "*What do you mean
you changed the interface without telling me?!?!*\ ")

--------------

At work we have this thing where we send in an account of what we did
during the day so that other people know what we're working on, and so
that we can keep our team on the same page. After all, when you're all
looking at computer screens all day, and in a few different time zones,
it's easy to loose track of what people are working on.

At the bottom of these emails, we're prompted to ask "what are your
blockers and impediments." Often I say something clever like "Compiler
issue with Spacetime interface or Library." Or something to that effect.
It feels like a good description of the last year.

Onward and Upward!

