==================
Return to Blogging
==================

.. post:: 2015-07-19
   :author: tychoish
   :location: Brooklyn, NY

And then I forgot to blog for 5 months.

It's not like nothing's happened on the one hand, or like I've failed
to keep busy, but I haven't been in the habit of writing blog entries.

That's not entirely true.

I've drafted, or started to draft a lot of posts, but haven't gotten
around to post them, or haven't really felt like I had a sense of
where they fit in to a larger story, or how writing blog posts
contributed to other personal goals or projects.

I'm not entirely sure, still.

It's also totally true that personal blogs are a much different thing
in 2015 as they were in 2000, and with things like `twitter
<http://twitter.com/tychoish>`_, there's a lot of ways in which the
trivial record of my day to day, isn't something I feel like I get a
lot of chance to explore elsewhere.

Writing, Then and Now
---------------------

For a long time, I identified my profession as writing, and indeed,
writing this blog was definitely a part of how I sold myself to
potential employers, and it mostly work. While I'm still *a writer*,
it's a much smaller part of my professional work now, and I think a
smaller part of my work in general. I'm not sure where blogging fits
into that.

I'm also not particularly, sure that I want to have this blog track
the shift in my professional work to begin talking about software
development and related issues. I know a number of people who blog
extensively about technology and a nexus of cultural and social issues
around the use and development of technology and software.

I think these folks are doing great work, and I may be interested in
contributing from time to time, but my perspective on technology and
software is pretty niche, and I think the most successful technology
bloggers, even folks who tend to focus on the human and culture side,
often have a large background on . I don't really want to write posts
that explain how technology works, not because I'm incapable, but
because I have a really niche perspective and I'm kind of burnt out on
that kind of writing. Maybe someday.

I'll definitely write something about technology from time to time,
and will report on various projects from time to time, but it's been
interesting to observe a change in what I'm spending my time and
energy on without feeling a corresponding interest in writing about
that here.

I've also been contemplating what it means to be "a person with a
blog" particularly with regards to career and avocational projects as
I think about what those projects are.

Work: Career and Projects 
-------------------------

I think it's important to be clear to not overemphasize the boundary
between "day-job work" and personal projects. There was a long time,
when I thought that the only way to have day-job-work that was deeply
satisfying and intellectually fulfilling and impactful was to be an
academic. That's simply not true, and while every profession is
different, I'm quite lucky to have a profession where the can be a lot
of bleed-over and cross pollination between work-work and
personal-work.

Having said that, I've definitely had fewer active personal projects
recently: I've not written fiction since 2011, I've not really
blogged, I've not really written software that I thought would be
useful to anyone other than myself (or work) in a long time. I'm left
both with the problem of needing to figure out how to prioritize and
focus on new projects (or revive old projects,) as well as needing to
figure out how working on making things, outside of work fits into my
goals.

Or even, what those larger goals are.

I don't have answers now, of course, but I do have some general
themes.

- I want to write science fiction stories, and use this blog as a
  space to discuss the writing process as well as the things I'm
  reading.

- I want to blog more regularly, potentially writing about more
  personal topics possibly on another site, disconnected from this
  site.

- I'd like to be in the habit of making the code I write sufficiently
  polished and *designed* to make it sensible for me to share with
  other people, and I think it'd be fun to discuss those projects.

We'll see how it goes!
