============================
Reverse Knitting Engineering
============================

.. post:: 2008-04-03
   :author: tychoish

So I'm still waiting on hearing back from a few people about the
copyright issues that might be involved in publishing/selling this
pattern, and in the mean time I was looking more carefully over the
pictures of this shawl and made a startling realization.

The pattern I thought I used was very clearly not the right pattern.
See, I donated the original to a good cause, and while I have really
good pictures, I knit it the first time in July of 2005, so it's not
very fresh for me.

It's a good thing I'm good at looking at knitting and forensically
reconstructing what happened and how it worked.

Which leads me to the second realization: I have no notion in the world
of how I arrived at this stitch pattern, because it looks like no chart
I have on file or have ever seen. Ever.

I think I was attempting to do snowdrop lace, a shetland lace pattern
that I'm pretty fond of--as these things go--and failed. I think it's
quite likely that I did the middle section late at night, and just miss
remembered. Thankfully, it looks really cool, and I was able to come
pretty damn close to recreating it.

The end result is that I'm making *another* giant blue tencel shawl
using the same pattern. See, I had more than half of the yarn left over
from the last time that I tried to make this shawl (best 20 dollars I
ever spent on yarn). I think I'll get to the last pattern and then set
it aside for the summer. I think this will probably count as one of my
"sweaters" for the 14 sweater project.

I'm thinking, as a joke, I might block it in the middle of the night at
camp, again, as I blocked the same shawl with the same yarn at camp last
year. But probably not. Just a joke.

In other news I was hoping that the picture that I posted yesterday
would let you all see the difference between my colorwork-blocked, and
unblocked, but you can't really see it. This sweater was rolling a lot
(because I haven't put the hem facing on it) so I steamed it out, which
made the stitches look all even, on the bottom half, and as I've knit
more, its become really apparent where I was in the project when I did
that.

People often say "wow your colorwork looks really even, mine always
looks like crap." The answer to this problem is steam. My colorwork
looks all funky and weird until I block it. Which is when it starts to
look normal.

Anyway...

Onward and Upward!

(ps. *Days on the Wailist:* **26**, though I have another 2 weeks at the
absolute outside. Egad. Eek. Sigh.)

