======
Rhythm
======

.. post:: 2008-01-02
   :author: tychoish

I wonder if it's redundant for me to tag posts
"`knitting <http://tychoish.com/tag/knitting>`__\ " and
"`writing <http://tychoish.com/tag/writing>`__." I keep doing it.

I feel like I've been pretty productive today, even though I worked a
lot of the day, and have had chores to do. I have a little mini workshop
on steeking that I'm giving tomorrow evening. That'll be fun, but I had
to write a handout this morning, which I think is pretty good.

Though I'm no `Stephanie <http://www.yarnharlot.ca>`__--in terms of
entertainment value--or Elizabeth--in terms of pure genius--I find
writing about knitting to come very easy, and while I don't know that I
have enough to offer in terms of content, I really would like to work on
putting together some sort of collection of knitting patterns or
something. I don't quite know.

Nevertheless, knitting writing means less fiction writing, but I got
some done. I'm basically done with chapter two. I need to spend some
time tomorrow morning laying out and chewing through what goes into
chapter 3 more clearly. Frustratingly, I'm only 140 some words away from
the 10k mark. Having said that, it's really good that the second chapter
wasn't any longer. My target for these first couple of chapters was 4500
words, and the first was 4750, and the second one is 5k. While you might
be inclined to say "but you got writing done, that's good," in point of
fact, no matter how many words you use in a chapter, each chapter
contains about the same amount of story. That is, the point A at the
beginning, and point B at the end of a chapter are the same no matter
how many words it takes.

But that's what second drafts and editors are for.

Joyce Williams, the knitter whose sweater I'm working on at the moment,
is fond of saying if you're knitting at a given gauge it will take you
the same amount of time to knit a sweater on size 0 needles (most round
toothpicks are about this size) or size 6s (about a pencil). The
corollary is that, there is no way to knit a sweater at a gauge of 9
stitches to the inch with any speed at all.

Which is why there isn't much about my knitting, except that I'm about
half way to the middle of the forearm where the pattern changes. One
stitch at a time.

