================
Right Foot Start
================

.. post:: 2008-01-01
   :author: tychoish

Good Morning, and good new year to you all.

I was greeted this morning with a broken tea pot in my office.
Thankfully we have a spare, so a wonderful pot of strong english tea is
brewing downstairs. I got a lot of new teas the other day at an
international food mart.

My new years eve was pretty uneventful. I went to bed at 11:30, I woke
up at a quarter to 8. That's good. I got knitting done. I wrote 1200
words yesterday. Can't argue with that.

There are a lot of new folks reading tychoish, thanks to my post over at
`zimmermania <http://zimmermania.blogspot.com>`__. While I do a lot of
knitting and I talk about it a fair peice here I think as a knitting
blogger I'm pretty bad at it. Except occastionally, on a day to day
basis, my projects don't change that much and would make for really
boring pictures. I'm no `WendyKnits <http://www.wendyknits.com/>`__,
that's for sure.

So I hope the rambling about my life and my writing is interesting. I
implore you to read the site, and maybe even `subscribe to the
feed <http://feeds.feedburner.com/tychoish>`__.

I'm going to go off in a moment and do some writing. I'm in the middle
of the second chapter of *Breakout*, the novel project that I'm working
on. The chapters for this one are a bit longer. I've worked through the
story a half dozen times, probably, so I know how it's all going to work
out, but I'm at that stage--that I think is inevitable at the beginning
of a project--where you're not quite sure that it's all going to
*actually* come together in something coherent. In an academic paper,
this is the first 500-1k words, in the novella it was 6k-9k, but it
looks like in this project it's not going to really come together until
10k-20k. Nerve wrecking, to say the least. Maybe this is part of the
reason why I don't "get" short stories: I feel like they need to come
together in the first 200-300 words, and that's not enough room for me
to even get my barring.

Anyway, I'll be around today. Thanks for reading. Do drop me a line, and
I'm sorry if it sounds like I go off the deep end from time to time: I
always come back, so just stick around and it'll be worth your time.

Onward and Upward!

ps. Somewhere in this post, I passed the 300,000 word mark in my
presently archived blogging career. Woot.

