=========================================
Ritual, Velocity, and Getting Things Done
=========================================

.. post:: 2010-04-15
   :author: Sam Kleinman
   :tags: writing, productivity

I finished chapter eight of the novel that I've been working on for...
Oh? Way. Too. Fucking. Long. And you want to know how I'm even
comfortable asserting that I'm done with the initial draft of Chapter 8?
I wrote an entire scene from Chapter 9 without saying "wow, I need
another scene in Chapter 8 so that the story works out." Because I've
finished Chapter 8 at least three times, but this time I'm pretty sure.
There are a couple of interesting, or at least quasi interesting factors
that I think are worth some attention.

For starters, I made some progress on the novel. I know that I don't
have endless time to write fiction, and in addition to a day job that
requires a bunch of my time and brain cycles, I write the blog, and work
on other side projects: fiction, programming related things, the `Cyborg
Institute <http://www.cyborginstititute.com>`__, dancing, singing, and
occasionally sleeping. These are all projects that are important to me,
and I think create value for me (and I hope in their own ways, you as
well) so I don't want to sound as if I'm complaining about being too
busy and overextended (perhaps I am), but as a result I think I'm being
pragmatic to accept a slower pace of development.

At the same time, *damn* I need to finish this thing. It's good, I'm
finally back in a place where I don't hate the story, but at the same
time I'm very aware that I've learned a lot.

And perhaps that's the problem with taking so long to finish novels. Not
so much that writing is a race, but if you aren't able to pull it off in
a reasonable period of time, say 12 months, or so by the time you get to
the end, you know so much more about the way you work about how to put
together stories, and how to *write*, that creating a cohesive work
becomes an actual challenge. At least for me, the thing I probably want
more than anything right now, is a chance to work on other fiction
projects, to take the lessons that I've learned from writing this story
and apply them to writing other projects. I have a great idea for a new
story laying around in a text file, but I'm not touching it yet.

The two most important things about being a writer, as far as I'm
concerned, are actually writing things (done!) and finishing things (at
which I think I get a middling B). So just starting new projects at
whim, isn't exactly an option either. So in light of all this, what's my
strategy? Fairly simple...

I've set a recurring task in my `org <http://orgmode.org>`__ system to
write 100 words a day on the novel. Just 100 words. And if I know it's
not going to happen I can mark the task as "skipped" or do it "late."
But the truth is that 100 words is the kind of thing I can do in only a
few moments, so it's not only a regular reminder to write, but also an
eminently reasonable goal. Not only do 100 word segments add up (in a
way that 0 word segments never do,) but the real trick is that in my
mind I'm not trying to write very much, just enough to get started. If I
don't, at least I've made a little progress. If I *do*, then all the
better.

In addition to the regular writing task for the fiction project, I've
also started keeping a journal using `this
method <http://metajack.im/2009/01/01/journaling-with-emacs-orgmode/>`__.
I've also created a recurring tasks for keeping the journal, and I find
this method tends to have a positive effect on my productivity. To-do
lists are great for remembering and prioritizing tasks when you have a
lot of balls up in the air, but they often fail at tracking real life in
a reasonable way. The journal provides a good way to keep track of, and
recognize the importance of all the things that we spend time doing, but
that don't often have an opportunity to be captured into the to-do list
before they get done. I think of it as a sort of inverse-to-do list.

It doesn't always work, of course. There are days when I don't get to
either one of these tasks, and there are some days where I catch up on
one or the other of them. But it's a good practice, and I focus on the
things that are important: actually producing something and then also
building and maintaining a habit.

Because I don't know how else things get done. Not that I'd be unwilling
to listen if you have a better solution. See you in comments...

