======================
2012 New Haven Singing
======================

.. post:: 2012-04-20
   :author: Sam Kleinman
   :tags: sacred-harp

I went to a fabulous all day Sacred Harp singing in New Haven
Connecticut last weekend. It was great. Thoughts:

Size and Space
--------------

This wasn't a huge singing. There plenty of singings in the Northeast
that have higher attendance, but that doesn't matter, there was
something nice about getting to sing with the people assembled.

It helped that the room was great for singing, and it was the perfect
size for the crowd. Sacred Harp singers are often big folklore geeks or
big music geeks, but I think deep down, we're all really huge *room*
geeks. Because a room that just *sounds* and *feels* good, makes all the
difference in the world.

Note to self: Go to more awesome regional singings in great rooms in the
future.

Heat
----

It was a pleasantly warm spring day, and with 80 or so people in a room,
it got *warm*, and while this did subtract something from the comfort
level, it also sets the mood somehow, and changes the tone of the day.
Also, when the air is a bit more humid (but it only needs to be a bit,)
and it's not as drafty and cold, its easier to keep your voice warmed
up. The end result: I (or one) will sing better between April and
September.

My Voice Part
-------------

In an unusual move for me, I spent 3 out of 4 sessions singing Tenor.
While I don't have a "super bass" voice, I'm defiantly on bass side of
baritone. In Sacred Harp, theoretically everyone can sing tenor, and
it's fun to mix things up a bit and songs sound different in different
parts. I am also finding that having a sense of another part makes it
possible to have a more rich sense of the music. Highly recommended.

Also, every time I sing tenor it takes me 25 minutes to remember (or
remind my body) how to do it, so it was particularly nice to have a good
long spell of singing to both figure out how to sing the part but also
to get more comfortable with it.

My local singing community has been a bit bereft of basses lately, so I
haven't had much opportunity to actually sing tenor as much as I might
like recently, so it was a particularly good change of pace.

Song Selection
--------------

I had something of an epiphany about leading and choosing your song at a
singing.

While choosing a song that you like and enjoy hearing is obviously a
part of the processes, I think song choice is more about choosing the
right song for the moment, and figuring out what will sound best *next*,
given the previous few songs.

I used to obsess a great deal about what song I would lead, and study it
(at least some) before the singing even began. This weekend, I came with
a few songs that I'd been thinking about but changed at the last moment
when I thought that the song I had picked out wouldn't fit very well.

