=================
Said on the Train
=================

.. post:: 2015-09-04
   :author: tychoish
   :location: Brooklyn, NY

I finished, on the train this week, reading `Freud and the Non-European
<http://www.amazon.com/Freud-Non-European-Edward-W-Said/dp/1844675114>`_
by Edward Said (on the recommendation of `zmagg
<http://Twitter.com/zmagg/>`_ and it was, one of the better reading
experiences I've had in a while.

Said is brilliant, and clear and says really complex important hard
things in a really clear and approachable style. He's also
frustratingly *correct*, which isn't really a problem, but as an
engaged and independent reader, I occasionally realize that the
internal monologue of my response is an unintelligent "yep yep"
chorus, and I feel like I've fallen down on the job of being a good
reader.

I might have a bit of a complex.

The thing is, that he actually is *very* right, and does an amazing
job of meeting Freud in his historical context, respecting in that
context for the audacity of his mission and the power of his insights
to encourage us to think about culture, its impact on human
motivation, and how personal and cultural histories combine to produce
identity, and inspire behavior. Or, more simply, that self-hood and
experience are a product of history and context.

Without, of course, in anyway excusing the flaws in Freud's methods,
biases, basis in fact (or lack there of), or utility (or lack there
of) in the care of the mentally ill.

Moreso, Said uses Frued, and his ideas about Jewish identity, and
himself as an example of late a certain phenotype of 19th century
Jewishness, to help contextualize (roughly) contemporary thinking
about jewish identity and Israeli culture and statehood.

It's roughly brilliant.

-----

I've long struggled with any kind of theory that engages seriously
with Freud or his intellectual successors: there's so much `crap
<https://twitter.com/tychoish/status/639590377226420224>`_ around
Freud, and it sort of feels like good energy after bad to try and
justify or resuscitate the tradition. And hurts when Freudian are used
to support what are otherwise really interesting intellectual
projects.

If nothing else Said gives a good example of a successful intellectual
interaction with Freud can occur, and what kinds of parameters and
context promote that kind of successful and productive interaction.

Maybe someday, I'll learn how to be a quarter the reader that Said
was. If I'm lucky.

In the mean time, I'm just going to keep reading things on the train.
