=========
Scattered
=========

.. post:: 2008-02-19
   :author: tychoish

So--knock on wood--the good feelings remain with me. I have no sense of
how I'll be doing come Wednesday/Thursday morning, but for now I'm doing
well. But I can't argue with success... much.

I got nearly everything on my todo list done yesterday, and perhaps a
bit more. Weird. Now I just need to be able to do that some more.

I also did a little bit of reading in the Tiptree. I'm *finally* hooked
on this novella. I'm reading *The Starry Night* which is a collection of
three novellas/long short stories, and it's a great deal of fun. Except
that you have to "get into" the book, what amounts to three times. (I'm
on the middle one.) I also read the beginning of "`The Hose Beyond Your
Sky <http://www.strangehorizons.com/2006/20060904/house-f.shtml>`__," by
`Benjamin Rosenbaum <http://www.benjaminrosenbaum.com/>`__ which I
realized that I had heard on `Escape Pod <http://escapepod.org/>`__ and
I enjoyed it both times.

There was also some work that I did on TealArt. Including writing a SQL
statement that worked really well, to provide the home page. There are a
couple of little quirks still in the design that I want your feedback
on:

1. The permalinks on the `home page <http://tychoish.com>`__ don't work.

2. On http://tychoish.com/blog/, and pages lower in that hierarchy the
   menu in the top corner has two links to http://tychoish.com, when
   logically the top link, should be to http://tychoish.com/blog.

I think that the first issue should work itself out as there get to be
more posts in the system (coming soon enough). And I think the second is
a result of me using the blog with the ID #1, as the primary blog. A
little tweaking should get me around this.

But, and here's the interactive portion of the program (One of the
things that was getting me down, before about how my blog entries were
too... static, was that I was no longer asking questions in my entries.
This is amends to that.) So if I have to drop specific permalinks on the
home page do you think that would be a really bad thing?

I thoughts so.

Anyway, I have writing things to do. And showering. Oh Showering. So I'm
going to go. I'll post another entry today, I *promise*.

Onward and Upward!
