==============
Screen Reading
==============

.. post:: 2008-06-12
   :author: tychoish

Every time--it seems--that someone suggests or comments on the future of
the digital text (ebooks), someone always says one of the two following
things:

1. People don't like to read words off of screens, the
quality/experience is bad and in truth people would prefer to read
words off of paper.

2. The codex is--by design and use--an important carrier of information
that can't be replaced by digital technology.

Despite the apparent similarity, I think one of these things (and only
one) is true: the second. Lets explore.

For starters, if you really think about it, we all read hundreds of
thousands of words off of screens every year (and in some cases, every
month or every week). We don't mind reading off of screens, and
particularly with
`anti-aliasing <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-aliasing>`__ and flat
screens, in many cases it's *easier* to read off of screens because
readers have more control over the display of text, and yet people don't
really read books off of screens.

The standing argument as to why monographs and novels have never found
success, is that there are two many distracting things you can be doing
on the computer. *Why read a book when you can check your email for the
20th time this hour?* This is, I think, why the codex is probably here
to stay. And because giving books a physicality is commercially
worthwhile, and because we respond to the form.

Having said that, I read a book off of my laptop screen this past
weekend, and I have to say that I rather enjoyed the experience. So here
are some thoughts on the experience:

The book came to me in PDF format, from a publisher. So the "pages"
looked like conventional book pages. There were page numbers and so I
was able to locate the text in space on a page, very much like I would a
"regular book." This spatial experience is often forgotten in digital
texts, and I think that layer of information helps our minds make sense
of longer texts. Also, because I knew the page numbers of the individual
pages, and the total number of pages in the document, I was able to
calculate my progress, again, helpful in assimilating the data in the
text file.

I could read the words comfortably on the screen while viewing the
entire page on the screen. Being able to see a snapshot of a page helps
me in locating the text in space, which makes reading easier. More
importantly, it allowed me to only scroll when I needed to change the
page. This is really important to a successful reading experience, in my
view.

The final piece of the puzzle is probably approaching an ebook like you
would any other text on a computer screen, rather than approaching an
ebook like you would a pbook. I read paper books, for the most part, in
bed at night. I read things on the computer sitting at my desk. I read
the ebook, mostly sitting at my desk. I also tend to read pbooks in
longer stretches, reading several thousand words at a time, where as I
probably never read more than 1,000 words at a time on a screen without
taking a break. You might have a very different method for reading, and
that's fine, but by cycling a novel in with my regular
livejournal-blog-email-twitter reading cycle I was able to read a novel
in a weekend; whereas it almost always takes me several weeks (if I'm
lucky) to finish a novel.

The end result? I've started reading another ebook, because it seems
worthwhile.

