==================================
Setting the Stage: Station Keeping
==================================

.. post:: 2007-06-05
   :author: tychoish

Centuries of colonization, growth, and settlement have left scores of
small and mid-sized human outposts on as many worlds. Rather than
continue a disorganized and largely unnecessary program of expansion the
League, or what remained of the central government, decided to
concentrate its resources on developing existing outposts and supporting
smaller and established populations. With good reason, many doubted the
intentions and abilities of this project: resources were limited, and
the mostly irrelevant mandates of the League did not inspire confidence.

Hanm Centre was one of the first outposts that the League and its often
laughable Navy established as part of this project. In high orbit of the
small colony world Hanm, the space station was to be the focal point of
the League's efforts on several worlds. Despite the possibility of
growth many on Hanm worried about the effects of the attention on their
way of life. Some object to the League because they figure better to
leave well enough alone‚ "Hanm, like many outlying settlements was
basically self sufficient and the larger issues of humanity's
unification were largely irrelevant‚" but there was another, more vocal
faction on the colony that wasn't strictly opposed to the effort to
federate the outposts, settlements and colonies; they were simply
opposed to the potentially hegemonic League.

These circumstances left Hanm Centre, and it's residents, in a unique
position to observe and act in the outcome of this debate. Life would go
on: there wasn't a group of any importance that advocated for a
"retreat," to the "core-side" worlds, neither was anyone particularly
opposed to the existence of the Hanm Centre station. Many expected that
whatever happened on Hanm Centre would have no profound impact to the
planet below and the progress of the Leagues development.

Despite the potential truth of these prognostications, the residents of
Hanm, and the later the station, mostly laughed or scoffed when they
read the kinds of statements made by the syndicated news commentators:
everyone was keen to point out that the news services were based on
different worlds.

The station was still new, so new that construction wasn't even
completely finished. Much of the permanent staff had yet to arrive,
even. So, although everyone in the universe with a connection to the
news-feeds thought that the situation on Hanm‚Ä"the planet and the
station‚Ä"was the shape of things to come, the residents were of course
more concerned with the construction schedules and the pending arrival
of the next automated delivery transport. These concerns were
complicated by the fact that a predominance of the station's occupants
were transitory: there for temporary work, or pausing for a moment on
the journey to other colonies and outposts. Despite this, there could be
little question that everyone‚Ä"-the League, the colonists on Hanm, the
station's residents, the settlers on the neighboring worlds, and
observers on dozens of worlds were eagerly waiting for further news of
Hanm Centre.

*...and I hope you too are waiting for news of Hanm. This "trailer" was
written by me to kick the series off. This project will be written by
many contributors, in addition to myself, and is an on going experiment
in hypertext/digital story telling. IF you're interested in
participating please contact me, `tycho <http://tychoish.com/tycho>`__.
I look forward to hearing from you, both in your contributions and in
your responses/feedback to these stories. Next week's episode will be
slightly more conventional, I promise. So stay tuned!--ty*

