=====================
SF-Writing: This Week
=====================

.. post:: 2007-06-24
   :author: tychoish

So I have this `Science Fiction writer's
list <http://groups.yahoo.com/groups/sf-writing>`__, and I've had it for
years, its generally been a great little place in my internet, and it's
grown to be quite popular; but because I haven't been able to pay very
much attention to it of late, and I've been up to other things, it's
been slow.

In an attempt to remedy this I've started posting a couple of questions
and a sort of weekly review every Sunday night to give it a kick in the
pants. I thought you might be interested.

Enjoy!

--------------

Hey folks--

I'm actually going to remember our little (well, my little, but whose
counting) tradition of doing a little review of the week for the list.

I once again, didn't get a great deal of work done, but I do have a
doctors note: I got my wisdom teeth out on thursday, and I'm finally
starting to come out of it. My face is actually a little bruised (on the
outside!), but healing in commencing, and I'm getting something done
even if it isn't fiction writing per-se.

I read the piece I talked about in my post "reviving old material," and
I was shocked to see how little it resembled what I thought was in the
piece. The good thing is that I liked both what I remembered and what I
wrote so that means I have a couple of good stories to work on.

I realized that my definition of a novel (100k words) is actually a
bunch longer than what goes for a novel these days (60-70k words).
That's fine, it just means that my internal outliner needs an
adjustment. I also think needing to aim for less means that stories can
be more concise/crisp, and also, finish-able. So maybe I'll try that
again. > Ok, in other news: >

- I finished `James Tiptree,
  Jr. <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Tiptree,_Jr>`__'s
  *`Brightness Falls from the
  Air <http://www.amazon.com/Brightness-Falls-Air-James-Tiptree/dp/0312854072>`__*
  which was amazing and well written, and sort of exactly what you want
  SF to be. There were good characters, meaningful ideas, and all the
  right hard/sociological elements.

- I started a `new blog <http://tychoish.com/>`__ it's just me, more
  informal: sort of a notebook, and I think it'll be a good practice.
  My hope is that by moving a lot of my personal blogging away from the
  main TealArt, my notion of it as a "blog magazine" I think will begin
  to work a little better.

- I reorganized the way the writer's documentation works at station
  keeping, which I think will help us as we progress with the series.

- I think I finished a `Station Keeping <http://tychoish.com/hanm/>`__
  story early in the week. I'm getting better at these I think, but I
  still don't want to be doing them all by myself. I need to do more,
  that's on the list.

- I got a job working in a library/archives. That'll be cool, and it's
  good for the temperament. Also, good to stay close to academia, that
  might give me the push it'll take to get to work on grad school
  projects.

I spent a few hours in an irish pub listening to some great music and
sketching out some ideas for this revived story. I do a lot of good
outlining there, but it's good stuff.

What have you all done this week? Also, what do you think about the
novel lenght and the "reviving old material," stuff?

Cheers, tycho
