============
shaped notes
============

.. post:: 2009-10-05
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: sacred-harp

I think that I seem to have acquired a new hobby.

I've known about shape note sining for years and years. The Weavers did
a few songs on some albums that I remember from when I was a kid. [1]_
And Cordelia's Dad (with Tim Erickson) came through town when I was kid
and they sang a few Shape Note songs. [2]_ And the Morris Dancing
gathering I attend has a lot of singing and a number of really awesome
singers (many of whom, I think, read this blog, so hi folks.) It's been
around.

I've always been intimidated by it.

I don't come from a singing background. I made the valiant effort to be
musical as a kid: I washed out of choir in fourth grade; I played
clarinet in middle school but it lost its wonder about half way through
(though I still have a clarinet, I don't really play); [3]_ I've done
some very ad hoc harmony singing with Morris Dancers and elsewhere, but
my memory for lyrics is bad and while that's a bunch of fun and I don't
think of that as a "hobby," or as the kind of thing one really does
except when one happens around other singers. And the whole "book
thing," about Sacred Harp singing always confused me.

And then, I had a series of pretty great experiences. I sang at the
Morris Ale and had a great time, a couple or (three?) years in a row,
and this year, I think something clicked. I got to sit behind a really
strong bass and suddenly I could hear "it." The harmonies made sense.
The book was helpful, but I stopped worrying about getting every note
right, and had fun in the moment, and somehow I was able to sing better,
or something. So I kept doing it. I went to a local singing right before
I moved, and I've been to four local signings and since I moved out
east, and then I went to a singing convention in New York City, and sang
for a whole day.

And it rocked. I'm still clearly a beginner, but I'm starting to be able
to see patterns in the music, and learn the words and tunes, figure out
the rhythms and all that. And given that I've failed at doing the
musical thing so much before, it's so interesting to me that I *get* it
about something musical. That I can have fun and contribute to something
that's kind of awesome to be a part of: both of the tradition, and of
the really intense and awesome moments created during singings.

I wish there were better words to describe all this. The appeal of
driving hundreds of miles to go sit in a room with a hundred or two
hundred of people you don't really know, and sing these very "rustic"
19th century protestant hymns, and have it be both a very spiritual
experience, and somehow that it not be a very religious experience.

The NYC singing that I went to--on Rosh Hashanah--had the opening Prayer
in Hebrew. And the Sacred Harp tradition is intentionally very
ecumenical, within of course the various American Protestant communities
of the 19th century. I'm very strongly of the opinion that the appeal of
this whole thing is this really hard to describe thing that happens in
the moment. The sense of community, the ecstatic experience of the
music, the nifty thing, when you feel the harmonies in your chest and
the pulse of the rhythm in your whole body. Like that's really nifty,
and special and totally worth while.

I also feel a certain failure as a writer because I'm totally unable to
communicate this in a way that I think borders on being sufficient. So I
think I'll stop trying for the moment, and hopefully I'll sing with some
of you soon.

Cheers!

.. [1] The songs were 209 (evening shade) and 155 (Northfield, which is
   among the most popular/familiar songs in the book and begins with the
   line "How Long Dear Savior").

.. [2] 335 (Return Again,) is the one on the recording, and it *gasp* has an
   Cello/something doing the Bass part on the recording.

.. [3] Mostly, I think because clarinet is such an awkward instrument for
   folk music-type things, particularly when my ability to transpose
   music on the fly is slim to none.
