=================
shifting progress
=================

.. post:: 2008-01-16
   :author: tychoish

So I knit 2-2.5 inches on this sweater (turkish tile) last night. That's
a pretty good amount for one day, and I'm pretty psyched about figuring
out how this is going to go.

It's going faster because I'm knitting over 114 fewer stitches, to set
in the armholes to shoulder width. I like being able to have something
that's a bit more fitted than the drop shouldered sweater, which is by
now, ubiquitous in my wardrobe.

This particular armhole shaping is soemthing that I haven't seen
(exactly) anywhere yet, so it's kind of cool to be working on *something
new*, having said that, this "garment framework," will really only be
useful in sweaters which have a pattern with a strong diagonal, because
in other situations, there are sleeve shaping methods that would be more
effective and aesthetic.

But I'm having fun with this sweater, and it's a good sweater.

The one problem that I've come to realize is that because the armholes
are so deep, in order for this sweater to fit over other sweaters (which
it should because it's a jacket), the armholes need to be *even
deeper/longer* than I thought, because my usual armhole measurements are
based on sleeves that are 3 inches shorter, or there abouts. I don't
need to make them *that* much longer, but a little would be helpful.

I'm working on putting together a small color-work (2 color/stranded)
sweater "master class." Because I want to teach something like this, and
because I'm really insistent that this is not a difficult technique, and
I think anyone who wants to knit this knit this could do a sweater. But
then my whole knitting MO is to sort of jump in head first and see what
happens, and I think it would work. It's something...

Anyway, I have a busy day...

Onward and Upward!

