===================
Short Fiction Goals
===================

.. post:: 2008-08-12
   :author: tychoish

I have never really considered myself a short story person. I'm not
really very good at writing on that scale, and for most of my life I've
never been particularly good at reading that literature.

In a lot of ways, I think 2008 will be/is the year that I decide if I
can make a go of this "writing" thing. I mean I think it'll take longer
than a year to decide if I've been *successful* at this writing thing,
but I think in a year and some change I can decide if it's something I
*want* to do.

So you might think, given this that I would have made some sort of new
years resolution to write a certain number of words every day or week,
or to write a novel, or something. `Instead, I resolved to keep a record
of my reading <http://tychoish.com/posts/new-year/>`__, and by doing
so I hoped that I would read more (though technically I didn't actually
resolve to read more.) Which makes sense, at least to me. It's important
to read, to be familiar with the literature of discourses you hope to
participate, and after a very *eccentric* introduction to science
fiction and fiction in general, not to mention several years of hiatus
from the genre, I thought it would be good to spend some attention to
this shortcoming.

And then there's the issue that I really don't grok short fiction very
well. Or it is, at least not something that I'm drawn to. I like stories
that draw me into their world, that ask me to think about an idea not
simply in a "isn't this interesting," or "imagine the implications of
this situation," but rather think about all of the *possibilities* that
grow out of the journey/story of the characters in this setting.

So I bought Dozois/Stratham anthology *`The New Space
Opera <http://www.amazon.com/New-Space-Opera-Gardner-Dozois/dp/0060846755/tychoish-20>`__*
earlier this year and have read many of these stories, and I'm almost
entirely caught up on `Escape Pod <http://escapepod.org/>`__, and I've
been reading `365Tomorrows <http://www.365tomorrows.com/>`__, and I have
a stack of old SF magazines that I've been picking my way though.

And I still don't get it.

I mean, I can appreciate a story, and I can almost write a short
story, [1]_ and I feel better about being able to speak intelgently
about short stories (what people are doing, the mechanics, and so
forth), but I don't *get* it. I'm going to keep reading short stories of
course, but I think at this point, I'm going to stop guilting myself
into reading more of them.

So there!

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!

.. [1] One of my problems is that I often forget that short stories don't
   have to be super short--I sometimes just assume that short stories
   have to be 2000 words or less--for example, it's not unusual for a
   short story to be about 6,000 words.
