====================
Short Fiction Trials
====================

.. post:: 2008-06-13
   :author: tychoish

I'm writing a short story.

No really. I am.

I have a checkered history with short form. Mostly I think my problem is
that I don't have a reflex for short integrated plots. I'm big picture
enough, and have enough to say with/about master narratives that I can
handle novel-sized plot with various tips and turns, but in the short
form it's harder to move all the pieces through a plot and still write
something recognizable as fiction.

This is all very funny in a sense, because one of my enduring academic
interests is how people construct and make sense of their "life
history." And yet, knowing a fair piece about this, writing stories is
something that I'm forever tripping up on.

The truth is that, the kinds of stories that people *actually* tell
about their lives, what really happens, and what would be interesting in
the context of a story are all so radically different from each other as
to be not recognizable as the same sort of thing. I remember once
thinking "you know, getting a degree in psychology will help my writing
as I learn about how people work;" I'm not sure if I believe it any
more, but it's sort of moot.

Even though I struggle with it, I still continue to *try* to write
shorter fiction. The best reason for this is the fact that short fiction
can be more topical, more *in the moment* because from inception to
publication can be a few months, where as getting a novel from inception
to the reader in less than a year (or 3) is pretty fast. Not to mention
that short work is easier to entice people to your work, participation
in critique groups is easier, publication is easier.

So I keep trying.

--------------

A bit about this specific story. I'm working on a series of linked
stories and vignettes in a new setting that I haven't *exactly* talked a
lot about here. It is to be the first body of work that I'm writing
specifically for the new fiction site. The world is fun, and writing the
primary character is a lot of fun, but this piece explores something
"earlier" and is narrated quite differently, so it's good for me, but
tough.

This writing stuff. It's tough.

Ok, I'm done. Back to work and real writing.

