==============================================
Simple Beret Pattern (a Free Knitting Pattern)
==============================================

.. post:: 2005-11-26
   :author: tychoish

Ok folks. You want to make a beret? Like to knit. Well I have a pattern
worked out that is perhaps the simplest pattern on the face of the
earth, that's very very flexible. It's so flexible that I don't even
need to give you a number to cast on, and you'll still get a good hat in
the end. I promise.

Cast On an *even* number of stitches, the precise number of your
choosing, onto your smaller circular needle (I cast on using the large
needle and then switch to the smaller, but whatever you prefer.) This
needs to fit around your head. 90 is a good default, or starting point
but alter depending on your needle size, head size, and yarn size.

Knit in K1 P1 ribbing for 5 rounds.

In the next round K4, M1 around.

Knit 4.5-6 inches in st st.

In the next round, K3 K2tog around. Knit 5 rounds even in st st.

In the next round, K2 K2tog around. Knit 5 rounds even in st st.

In the next round, K1 K2tog around. Knit 2 rounds even in st st.

In the next round, K2tog around. Knit 1 rounds even in st st.

In the next round, k2tog around, and draw yarn through remaining
stitches.

Block/Felt/Full the hat as you see fit. For me this generally involves
rubbing it vigorously in hot soppy water in the kitchen sink for about
fifteen minuets, but I have experience with flat felting so it might
take people without that experience a bit longer. I don't generally
trust the washing machine for small things like this. Whatever method
you use, when it has felted down enough stretch the hat over an
appropriately sized dish. Let it dry about half way, then take it off
the dish and shape the brim so that the entire hat is round and lays
flat. At this point you need to pay attention to the size of the head
hole. Don't use a measuring tape, but the dish tends to malform the
shape a little and this needs to be corrected. With a steam iron, steam
the hat in this shape, and let it dry the rest of the way.

And there you have it. A beret.

Read on for notes about the needle size I generally do the ribbing one
or two needle sizes smaller than the main body of the hat. I've had good
results using size 3s for the ribbing, and size 5s for the body. I've
also had success with size 5s for the ribbing and size 8s for the body.

