=============
Sir/Mr. Henry
=============

.. post:: 2007-07-05
   :author: tychoish

Here folks. Look at me, I'm being a knitting blogger. *ain't I being
hip* **ahem** anyway...

There's not much to say about this sweater. It's a derivation of Alice
Starmore's "Henry VIII" sweater from *Tudor Roses*. I basically knit it
to the pattern, changing the sleeves to be a bit longer because I
apparently come from a different racial stock than A.S., and we my
friends have longer arms. I made a mistake with regards to the bottom
horizontal pattern band, but I think it looks ok all things considered.
Her version of course has bunches of colors, and is quite impressive.
Mine doesn't. The yarn is Knit-Picks Gloss, a silk and wool, fingering
weight, sock yarn, which is delightful but doesn't come in many colors.
Also, I think the contrast is works pretty well for me, so I'm not
arguing.

I make the joke that this garment, isn't so much a cheep knock off, as
it is a representation of the way fashion trickles down from the
nobility to the peasants. This is a stop along the way, of course, and
why I sometimes call the sweater Sir or Mr. Henry.

Here's the sweater laid out on a chair:

Here's a detail on the chair. Ok crapy shot, I'm really not one of those
photographing knit bloggers you know. I do better--marginally at
least--with words. Never the less, for your edification:

And finally a close up of the neck, because I took the picture, and I
think it's probably worth showing off.

While I like the neck of this sweater, this has proven to me that I
really don't do well with crew necks. They're hard to wear and I always
feel like I'm over dressed with crewneck sweaters. If I had to do this
again, I'd open the neck somehow. Maybe that could be part of version 3
(because I do want to knit the sweater over again). Also, I think if I
were going to knit it again, I'd put underarm gussets in the sweater,
because I feel like it's a bit tight there sometimes.

Stay tuned, more reports when I arrive and get settled in. There'll be
more `knit camp blogging here <http://www.bertandfelix.typepad.com/>`__.

See you on the flipside.

