==============
Site Revisions
==============

.. post:: 2009-03-16
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: update, internet

I've been tweaking the site for a few weeks off and on. Busy schedule
and what not. A while back I made a list of things that needed to
change: updated links, clearer sidebar, better system for the "mini
blog" (coda), and different interior page designs, and every few weeks
I've gone through and changed something, until now, when I think I've
done enough to warrant a small post about these changes.

In the right column I took all the menus and put them in little
"JavaScript" toggles, so that they take up much less room, but when you
click on one of the links in the "menu box" above the menus expand for
your viewing pleasure. I also did some cleaning up of the links list,
and have expanded the list of sites that I'm linking to. I like giving
the "real content," a lot more attention, while still keeping all the
"sidebar" content accessible when possible.

The second big part of this revamp was to create a more customized "home
page" for the site that displayed content productively and clearly,
without and endless overload of content that word-press can provide if
you're a) wordy like me; b) not careful. Basically I now have a bunch of
custom "loops/queries" to pull the right kind of content onto the home
page, and I can append "recent articles" lists, to provide access to the
content without displaying all of it. On the essays, I even use a toggle
script for a couple of entries for some added punch.

The final piece--this last weekends work--has been to change the
"interior" page so that when you go to see a specific article the page
is much less cluttered. I've also started using
`disqus <http://www.disqus.com>`__ for comments, and with some CSS magic
I've gotten pretty satisfied with how this works. I really like having
unique interior pages.

If something doesn't work on your browser, or you have additional
suggestions, I'm all ears. Back to your regularly scheduled programming.

