===============================
Station Keeping #12.5: Disaster
===============================

.. post:: 2007-08-24
   :author: tychoish

*Welcome to the final part of our Station Keeping finale for this season
of the project. Thanks for reading, and we'll see you in a month or so.
As always if you want to
`participate <http://tychoish.com/particpate/>`__ in the next or figure
seasons of the project, please contact us by email at tycho@tealart.com,
and we'll see you on the other side. Thanks so much for reading! Cheers,
tycho*

First Eli tried pacing, but that seemed to be distressing the others
waiting for the lift with him. No one spoke, they were too worried or
numb or confused, or maybe they were just tired. He contemplated going
back to his quarters to see if he could get more information from the
computer system, but he suspected that Julia would probably have control
over resources, and his quarters weren't on the top of any list. What's
more he didn't get access to the network from home, in an effort to
avoid taking work home with him.

"*Commanders are always on duty, even when they're not*." David's words
of so long ago echoed in his head. *Except now,* he figured.

Eli even stopped looking at his time piece, because he had become too
concerned trying to calculate time-till-death based on available data
and the time that had passed. How long it would take a reactor to go
critical, how long it would take a fire to spread, how long it would
take atmosphere to leak out slowly, how long it would take to die in
vacuum: these thoughts wouldn't save anybody, and didn't make him feel
any better.

Just when Eli had started to loose track of time, the intercom box
crackled to life. "Commander, can you reset the lift controls from
there? I think the team has cleared up the mechanics, the system just
needs to be reactivated down there," Joshua Sian's voice called over the
intercom. Eli could hear Talia directing the deck in the background. A
small comfort at least.

"Ok, I think I have it," Eli had to search through the lift controls for
a second, but finally came to the proper option. The system appeared to
cycle through and a moment later, the doors opened.

"You're good to go," Sian reported quickly and then the channel thought.
This crisis wasn't over, that much was clear, and it required every
ounce of self control to keep from asking his crew what was happening.
He'd be there soon enough, and they were busy.

The lift ride seemed to take even longer than usual. It might have
actually been slower, if resources were needed elsewhere, or if the lift
hadn't been properly fixed. He banished the images of getting stuck for
hours in the lift waiting for a rescue; but the lift trudged on.

Finally they reached the command deck. He stepped out of the lift and
looked around. His people were working in a fuss, and although he
thought he heard Josh say "welcome to the party," it would take him a
moment to get up to speed. He was a little dazed but he walked over to
where Talia was standing and began to get a feel for what was happening.

Julia was emerged in her systems; Josh was directing the maintenance and
construction squads for emergency duty; Talia was routing incoming
communications to other officers and stations, and the entire place was
crawling with techs and operations staff. He still didn't know what's
happening.

"Look," Talia said, as she transferred something to the display in front
of him. She pointed with her left hand, but continued to work her
controls with her right, and a moment later she was reabsorbed in her
task.

The display flickered once, and then Eli saw. His jaw fell slack.

"Oh, g-d..."

*"Disaster" was written by, `tycho <http://tychoish.com/tycho>`__, the
creator of `TealArt <http://tychoish.com>`__ and [Station
Keeping](http://tychoish.com/hanm"). He is a student and knitter by day
and a science fiction writer by night, you can read his work elsewhere
on `TealArt <http://tychoish.com>`__ and at
`~/tychoish <http://tychoish.com>`__.*

