========================================
Station Keeping #11: Walking Away, Pt. 2
========================================

.. post:: 2007-08-16
   :author: tychoish

*Welcome to part two of our* Station Keeping \_installment "Walking
Away." You can read part one here, and be sure to check out the `rest of
the series <http://tychoish.com/hanm/>`__. We will return next week for
our special "week long" finale starting Monday afternoon. We're already
getting started on our second series so if you want to
`participate <http://tychoish.com/particpate/>`__ now is the time. As
always we welcome and encourage your feedback in the comments section or
to tycho@tealart.com. Cheers, tycho

.. raw:: html

<hr />

<h2>

INT. ANOTHER ROUND, a booth in the far corner.

.. raw:: html

</h2>

<p>

They both sip from their drinks leisurely. DAVID reclines and keeps a
gentle hand on his bottle at all times, ELI sits up straight and only
picks up his bottle occasionally.

.. raw:: html

</p>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

So, have you heard anything?

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Um? Anything? I'm not in your intelligence department, I am actually
retired. I think I've done my bit--

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

People like you don't retire, the Navy wouldn't allow it. You have the
only real social space on the station, you have to hear things.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

We only don't retire when you don't want us to. From what I've seen you
have a great staff, and that Sian is a great officer.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

He is, you're right, but don't distract me. You should have my job now,
and we both know it.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Weren't we decided that this is a shit assignment for you. You'd have
been an admiral otherwise. Didn't Admiral Roth apologize for sending you
out here.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

You're here, how bad can it be? And besi--

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Irrelevant argument. I'm not an officer any more, and it's an
interesting place for Marc to practice, and for me to be retired.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

--besides, this is the most high-profile post in the entire League. I'm
surprised Roth didn't take it for himself.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

He probably wanted to, but one of his cronies probably convinced him
that it was better to wait out another thousand years in
interstellar-transit. He probably thinks that that'll give him a better
chance at the top...

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

He's been around that long? No wonder.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Really, I know.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<p>

DAVID takes a drink.

.. raw:: html

</p>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

He'd be a fool not to realize that that's a bad move. By that time,
he'll be a relic--

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Already is. But at least someone who has his ear has our best interests
at heart.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<p>

DAVID chuckles.

.. raw:: html

</p>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

You? You did it?

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

I'd rather you have a chance at the top than Roth.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Bastard.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

You're welcome. If you ever want to be an Admiral, though...

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

I hate you. For this, you better start working for me.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Not on your life. You really are the best person for this job. Better
than I would be.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Wait, if you're still in, why not just do the job yourself. You could.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<p>

ELI finishes his drink.

.. raw:: html

</p>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Because it's yours, I've had my fun being in charge and... out front.
I'm done with that. I promise you. You're right, the Navy won't really
let me go completely, but if they listen to me when I talk, I'll take
it. Out here, I'm in no danger of being called to lecture and teach
constantly,

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

So I guess that leaves me--

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

--with a good bar and very capable backup. Speaking of the bar...

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<p>

DAVID finishes the rest of his drink.

.. raw:: html

</p>

<dd>

Thank you for the drink, now trust me, it there's something that you
need to know I'll tell you, otherwise...

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Leave you alone?

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

--don't try and conscript me. Again.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Ok... I guess.

.. raw:: html

</dd>
<dd class="parenthetical">

(sly smile)

.. raw:: html

</dd>
<dd>

I'll keep you in the loop.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<p>

DAVID and ELI stand up.

.. raw:: html

</p>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Please don't.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

I have to.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

I won't read it.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<dl><dt class="character">

ELI BANNER

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

Whatever, you will read it.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<p>

DAVID laughs knowing that ELI is probably right about this point. DAVID
pulls ELI into a quick friendly hug.

.. raw:: html

</p>

<dl><dt class="character">

DAVID CONRAD

.. raw:: html

</dt>
<dd>

I think you should get out now and get some sleep for your next
shift--when ever you decide that is--or it'll be my turn to hate you.

.. raw:: html

</dd></dl>

<p>

ELI turns and leaves. DAVID watches and we

.. raw:: html

</p>

<h3>

FADE OUT.

.. raw:: html

</h3>

*"Walking Away, Part 1" was written by `tycho
garren <http://tychoish.com/tycho>`__ the creator of
`TealArt <http://tychoish.com>`__ and [Station
Keeping](http://tychoish.com/hanm"). He is a student and knitter by day
and a science fiction writer by night, you can read his work elsewhere
on `TealArt <http://tychoish.com>`__ and at
`~/tychoish <http://tychoish.com>`__.*

