=================
Skill and Mastery
=================

.. post:: 2010-04-12
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: economics

A few years ago, at a Morris Dance weekend, I saw a woman sitting in one
of the common rooms obviously struggling with a piece of knitting. I
helped her figure out something, and then went back to singing or
whatever it was. When I returned to my chair the experienced dancer
sitting next to me assumed I was the student and said, "Getting a
knitting lesson, eh?"

And I chuckled in between choruses and said "Not really, I'm an even
better knitter than I am a Morris dancer."

Impressed he said "Wow, and you're a pretty good Morris Dancer."

Which was an utterly delightful thing to hear, particularly from this
chap. I'm an ok Morris dancer, and--particularly then--I tend to use
youth as a compensation for skill. And I don't knit as much now I as
used to, and while I don't know *all there is to know* about knitting,
not by a long shot, I'm pretty good. I've been knitting for 8 years, or
so and the thing that's keeping me from knitting these days is time, and
the fact that I live in a pretty warm climate at the moment. I never see
something knitted and think "wow that's too hard for me." In a lot of
ways, I think I've mastered knitting.

In some ways that's kind of cool. It's nifty to be able to think about
something and say, "yes! I can do this." And at the same time, I can't
help but have a little bit of regret for the fact that I spent so much
time figuring out how to do something that I can't really use most of
the time: I don't live in a climate that really calls for woolens most
of the time, I don't have any real interest in being a knitwear
designer, and I consistently have trouble finding time to knit amongst
all of the other things that I find myself committed to.

Speaking of which, I've certainly committed myself to other things. The
dancing, I've spent a lot of time dancing and learning how to be a
better dancer. And it's sort of paid off. I'm not great, and I fake my
way though far too many things, but I feel competent, and I've gotten
some pretty good feedback. And that's *awesome*. While it's fun and
socially fulfilling--and that's good enough--at the same time I'm not
sure if it gets me anywhere in particular. I don't really want to play
music, and I'm not a very good teacher of dance.

I am *incredibly* grateful that I started dancing when I was in high
school. I don't know if I'd have been able to pick things up as easily
without those experiences. As with knitting in college, the early and
intense experiences gave confidence and enough base-skill to make
mastery a possibility. Had I started not when I did, I don't know that I
would have had the patience, confidence, or persistence as a(n
albeit-young) adult to learn the things that I do automatically. I can't
really fathom it.

Which brings me to writing. And I don't even have a clue what to say
there. I'm pretty good--I mean, I definitely have the persistence
*nailed*--but I have no delusions that I'm a *great* writer. I've been
writing forever, and I've definitely been in situations where I've had
to edit other people's work and thought "wow, my prose may be flawed,
but at least it isn't *that*." I wonder why writing is different then,
at least for me. Am I a better dancer/knitter than I am a writer? Is it
simply easier to critique writing than it is to critique a sweater or
ones ability to dance socially? Is the fact that one some level the
production of text has economic baggage in a way that a waltz so rarely
does?

--------------

My own angst aside, I was talking with a longtime reader of the blog
about employment and changing careers and about figuring what your
skills and assets are. Because the transition from "I know how to knit
sweaters and write things and dance," into "I have a job writing about
Linux-based systems administration," isn't the kind of thing that makes
sense immediately.

But when you dig, I think it does: it turns out that writing knitting
patterns in a the narrative/Elizabeth Zimmerman-inspired way that I
do/did, is *very* much like process for writing about systems
administration tasks. And I think dancing gives you the ability to be
nimble and quick, not just physically (which may be of limited use more
generally,) but also in social situations. Fixing a contra dance line
that's gone awry in the middle of the line has transferable skills. We
hope, at least.

The challenge is in making those connections is difficult, and figuring
out how to calculate the value that these skills might provide to the
world. And isn't this always the case?

