==================
Sleeve Alternation
==================

.. post:: 2008-01-12
   :author: tychoish

Sometimes I think I should be making vests more often. Aside from the
fact that I can't really fathom wanting to wear sweater vests, they seem
like they'd be fun to knit. Perhaps when my collection of jackets, both
knit and sport-coat-like grows, I'll make a few sweater vests and see
what happens.

At the moment, I'm stuck on a little bit of a sleeve incident. the
Morocco sweater progresses. By my count I have about 120 more rounds of
this sleeve. Because I knit sleeves from the top down, these rounds will
go pretty quickly; but I'm not quite past the magic point where the
sleeve seems to zoom on toward completion.

I have dedicated myself to getting some of this sleeve done, and I've
put a couple more hours into it, which has been a good for my state of
mind. I think that once this sleeve is done, I'm going to take a break
and work on other projects for a while. I think it's very true that,
while I'm generally a one project kind of guy, at least with this
sweater, I need to alternate the sleeves that I'm working on. I did that
this fall with some measure of success, and I'd like to be able to
switch between the projects that I'm already working on.

I've been giving some thought to the difference between knitting my own
designs and knitting other people's designs. I basically always knit my
own designs, and have for years, but recently I've gotten more and more
interested in knitting some other people's designs. This morocco
sweater, the Bauhaus pullover from interweave last year or so, Meg's
sweater from "Sweaters from Camp" and so forth. And truth is, in the
grand scheme of things, I'm pretty low on design ideas myself.
Thankfully I'm not in need of more sweaters, and my sensibility has
moved into simpler and more understated recently, so I'm not having a
huge problem with this, but it has been something I'm thinking about.

--------------

Ok, woot. I got most of a post out all on one topic. Ish. Close enough.
Anyway, I'm thinking that there's something "off" about my working
system, and I need to address this, plus I have a job to do this
afternoon, and errands to run, so...

Over and out, tycho

