==============
Small Projects
==============

.. post:: 2007-11-25
   :author: tychoish

I finished the last lingering project from this summer on the Friday. I
had started a number of sweaters in June so that I could have the right
projects on the needles for camp. See, for camp they want you to be
working on something small that you can try out all of the nifty things
that they're showing you. I, however, think making smaller sweaters is
kinda dumb, because I am ornery like that.

So rather than have a baby sweater for camp, I decided to have, 3
me-sized sweaters in progress.

Usually, the pace of a sweater sort of balances things out, and if you
work on them successively rather than concurrently, it's hard to get
bored. So making them all at the same time, was clearly a mistake that I
won't be repeating. It took me to thanksgiving to get all three sweaters
from may and June finished up.

The good news, the green cardigan (my first venture with EZ's seamless
saddle shoulder shaping) seems to be an instant hit. I'm not sure it's
the best looking sweater I've made, or that it fits my father
particularly well, but he seems to like it a bunch, and that's what
counts. It still needs to be blocked. And I have a couple of socks worth
of yarn to cope with.

Also--and this is where the title of the post comes in--but I finished
another pair of socks that rock socks (medium weight) that I've been
dragging my feet on for a while. I think I started these in may as well
alas. I'm working on a little black cap, as I am with out hats at the
moment, and feeling like making a few hats, and I have little odds and
ends of yarn that I need to knit up before I can more comfortably get
more yarn.

Also, good news, my last real remaining spinning wheel has, I think
found a buyer. Which means we'll see how this goes, but, I think I might
be able to buy the new wheel soon. I have a hank of yarn that is drying
in the upstairs shower now (great place for setting twist!), and it's
quite nice. Quite nice. I'm not sure what I'm going to do with it yet,
so we'll see.

Also--third post-script paragraph, a new record perhaps?--I'm slowly
getting the wheels started on selling a couple of my patterns and what
not. I need to do some tweaking to the
`TealArt <http://tychoish.com/>`__ design, not to mention some more
writing, before this is a reality, but it's coming.

Anyway, that's all for now. Hope your long weekend has been long enough!

Onward and Upward!

