==========
So. Tired.
==========

.. post:: 2008-11-19
   :author: tychoish

I haven't written one of these journal posts in a long time and I think
it's long overdue.

On the whole I think things in the land of tycho have been really good
of late. I'm writing, I'm learning and settling into a new computer and
text editor, I'm working (perhaps not enough, but nonetheless), I'm
working on an exciting academic project, life is good.

But having said that it's been one hell of a week(end).

My grandmother, who has been a mostly faithful reader of this site for
many years except recently when her recovery from knee-replacements has
kept her away from her computer, recently came down with a rather nasty
gut bug. So my father and I rushed across the state and spent a rather
long time fighting with various medical red tape to get her admitted to
the hospital and then to begin shepherd her through various thises and
thats. The end result: she's healing quite well, and doing pretty well.

For a while there she was the only patient conscious in the ICU but a
few others have started to wake up. But at the moment of this writing
I'm pretty sure she's the only patient doing a crossword puzzle in the
ICU. Truth be told, we're mostly just waiting for a single room to open
up on another floor (because of the gut bug, they have to keep her in
semi-isolation, and I've spent a lot of time wearing gowns to keep
everyone else safe).

So this has been an adventure. And it's not over yet. But at least I
have a good laptop and the wireless at the hospital is top notch. Oddly
I haven't been able to connect to IRC (I think the hospital is blocking
6667). Wierd.

The one thing that is the most striking is that I've been, since
Saturday really tired. Yesterday I took a nap in the afternoon *with my
boots on* and still slept a full night. I'm making a point of writiting
at the hospital while I'm just hanging out rather than waiting till I go
home at the end of the day. Lets hope this helps.

Onward and Upward!

