===============================
Software, Writing, Productivity
===============================

.. post:: 2006-12-06
   :author: tychoish

So this just decided to be a TealArt entry when I wasn't looking.

I've been reading 43 Folders for a month or so at this point, and I find
it kind of delightful. For those of you who don't know the site, done by
Merlin Man, is all about productivity from a geek/mac user perspective.
This is terribly cool, and has allowed me to crystalize a lot of
thoughts I've had about my own digital (and really life) organization.
The following are some of these thoughts.

.. raw:: html

<h5>

Productivity

.. raw:: html

</h5>

One thing that Merlin goes on about is David Allen's Getting Things Done
approach. Frankly the corporate productivity slant is kind of a put off,
but there are a number of tenants that reading 43f and associated
materials regarding GTD that are helpful, and summarize a number of
things that I think I noticed. For instance, I really like the emphasis
on collecting data so that your organizational system isn't in your
head. I've generally been pretty good about keeping track of things in
my head, but it requires a lot of attention to make sure that you're on
top of things, and if you can get it off your mind, you free up
attention from meta-tasks, to actual tasks. In a similar vein the "GTD"
methodology suggests that you separate meta data from project/relevant
data, and then only have one "system" whatever it is for organizing this
data (I suppose technically two, one for meta and one for project, but
whatever), so that your brain isn't preoccupied with keeping the
organization systems in synch. GTD also recommends that you organize
your tasks into projects (a collection of tasks that combine to equal a
gestalt [1]_) the tasks which make up the project, and then output this
data by context (where the task needs to get done, or what resources are
necessary).

This entry, as initially envisioned was mostly to be about the "not
splitting your/my attention between multiple systems for managing
project data," so I'll get on with writing that entry, but I just wanted
to provide that little summary. I have some interesting commentaries on
the "GTD Community," and what not that I think might be interesting to
share at some point, so just keep that in the back of your mind.
Anyway...

.. raw:: html

<h5>

Software

.. raw:: html

</h5>

I just discovered a GREAT novel/long project writing program. I'll putz
around with it after break, but it seems to have a lot of great
features. Don't get me wrong, I really love my wiki program for all
sorts of day to day editing and drafting, but for any sustained piece of
writing over, say 2,500 words, it doesn't do so well. In addition to
being awesome in terms of editing/output formating, it has a lot of meta
features (like a database, marginal notes, and a note pad) that makes
the writing long projects super good. If there was one thing that I wish
this program had that it doesn't is footnotes.

VoodooPad, the wiki program, is basically a wiki-ified TextEdit (Word
Pad for the PC users out there), and while it does a great job of
editing RTF type files, and I like a lot of the features, I find it best
for planning, and note taking type applications. Having said that, this
semester, it has basically been the *only* application that I've used
for text editing of any kind, and while I fully expect to continue to
use it into the future, I've been feeling the limits of the program.

I think this is an issue that I'll take up in another post, but I think
Wiki's generally, (and this is perhaps due to wikipedia's influence in
particular), encourage "pages" to take on the structural role of
paragraphs, in the conceptual process. This is all fine and dandy, but
I've always been a long form kind of guy, and I'm not sure scholarly and
the kind of creative writing I might be prone to doing, is ready for the
kind of nonliearity that this kind of organization might produce. This
linearity/nonlinearity, is definitely something that I go back and forth
on a bunch. But as a *system*, I think the Wiki organization works best,
so I don't know. In any case this new editor might answer the problem
with long form and presentation work, without disrupting the system
overly much.

.. raw:: html

<h5>

Writing

.. raw:: html

</h5>

As I've ruminated for a while on this site, and to a few of you, I kind
of regret that I wasn't either particpating in NaNoWriMo, or in the
process of writing something creative this November. In response, I also
have a great screen writing program that I have a lot of love for. My
goal next semester is to get back into writing for real, I think. I
tried to outline something this summer which fell flat, a little, but I
might be able to run with it. I'm also tossing around an idea for an
academic paper next semester which I think would get me to read
(hopefully) a number of cool science fiction books (Tripree, LeGuin,
Delany) which I think would be inspiring. Or something.

Cheers, tycho

.. [1]
ok, so maybe that's my term... by the way, weblogs need (better)
footnote settings.

