===================================
Some Future in your Science Fiction
===================================

.. post:: 2010-02-12
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: science-fiction, writing, history

I finished reading Kim Stanley Robinson's *The Martians,* on my Kindle
the other day (the short review: It was great, I don't know how I felt
about the poetry at the end, but I liked the collection.) and promptly
began reading this month's Asimov's. The first story is an alternate
history/fantastic
history/I-think-there's-science-fiction-coming-but-it's-not-here-yet,
piece and I can't bring myself to really read get into it. It's well
written, and I even find myself delighting at the text (in a technical
sense.) I think the issue that I'm running into is that I don't really
get the alternate history thing.

Which is, you know, weird. I should break out and say that my fiction
tends to be very historically concerned. I'm fascinated by history and
there are a lot of historiographical themes and ideas in the stories I
write. But they're all set in the future, and try as I might, I don't
really have much interest in writing stories set in the past of our
world. Alternate or otherwise.

Maybe it has something to do with my view of history. I tend to take a
big picture approach to history and I tend to think that single events
and single individuals rarely really affect history. If you called me a
determinist I'd probably gnash my teeth for a few moments and then
agree. Which makes constructing alternate histories sort of difficult.
Add to that the fact that quasi-deterministic big pictures, though
probably accurate and helpful, don't lend themselves to good stories.
When you don't feel like your characters--any of them--have agency, it
doesn't make for terribly interesting story telling.

At least for me. I think other people can pull it off.

This whole "I want my science fiction to be set in the future," thing
isn't something I can rationalize or support very well. Clearly I don't
find the past to be a very good "escape." The future is fun, vast, and
full of possibilities and enables the sorts of things that I enjoy most
in science fiction: the ability to engage in a critique of the present,
high energy stories with adventure, and for lack of a better term,
stories that impart a "sense of wonder." There's more out there, I just
can't seem to muster the interest.

This isn't to say that I don't sometimes find myself enchanted by
non-futuristic stories, it's just not a terribly frequent or predictable
sort of experience. I should also be clear, I'm not of the opinion that
when science fiction stories talk about the future and are set in a
future, that they are *about* anything except the present at all.

And I'm not terribly proud of this. I suppose we all have our things.

I worry that my tastes aren't sophisticated enough, that I enjoy stories
for the wrong reasons, or that I get too caught up in the scenery and
forget to pay attention to what really matters. Despite this whole
"writer thing," that I have going on these days I don't have very much
formal training in literature. It's sort of awkward to say "I feel like
I'm not a very good reader," that's definitely something that I battle
with.

For those of you who are part of the larger community of science
fiction/fantasy/genre fiction readers (which I think necessarily
includes writers,) I'd be very interested to learn your thoughts on this
subject: how do you relate to the future in the stories that you write
and read? The past? Alternate histories? Is there some connection that
I've mostly failed to see? Am I not alone in this?

Thank you (preemptively) for your feedback.

