==================
Some Winter Breaks
==================

.. post:: 2005-01-21
   :author: tychoish

A couple years ago I spent my winter break writing, almost obsessively.
I think I got 25,000 words on The Book done in two weeks. Last year I
made a sweater or two. This winter break, in comparison, I've made a
pair of socks, five (or six or seven) hats, a tote bag, did some
finishing work on a sweater, and hopefully before the end of it, I'll
have finished another sweater (sleeves and some trim left).

Oh how the times they change.

Over the past two years, knitting has surpassed writing as my primary
avocation. I think this is in part due to the fact that knitting engages
a complete different part of my brain than my "work" (psychology,
women's/gender/queer studies), where as writing (and the reading that
one has to do in order to write) are what I do "in the real world."
Knitting is escape, and writing became too much work. So I stopped, or
more appropriately switched.

Also, I think I hit a brick wall with writing. I got to a point where I
needed to publish more of my work, and publish it in respectable places.
Print. Publications people have heard of. Money was an issue to. I
didn't want to throw my work into a black hole, and I felt (and still
feel) that money signifies something important. If a publisher can
afford to pay you, even a pittance, it means that s/he is making a
profit on the publication, which means that people are reading it, and
publishing (and money) was a way to ensure that my work was being read.

In order to write at this level, one has to be (I think) a little better
than I was or perhaps am. One also has to be *really* persistent, and
dedicate a sizeable percentage of one's time to pitching what you think
are really great ideas (that you've put a lot of energy into) to editors
who aren't going to accept your idea. As a "Writer" you have to spend so
much time doing things other than writing that, when it comes time to
actually write you, or I, don't really have the energy and/or will to
write.

And now, as my writing interests are starting to turn in academic
directions, I find that even though my transcript says I'm a second
semester sophomore, I have a long way to go before I think I'll feel
comfortable contributing to the discourse.

I think another issue that I faced, was that I'm contrary by nature.
Like when I was a mobile tech guru, I was interested in using the
gadgets as text delivery systems, and as ways to write portably, while
everyone else was interested in vertical market solutions, graphics
processing, widget type applications, and the like. As a knitter, I'm
interested in a completely different different type of garment
construction, style, and fiber content, than just about every designer.
As a women's studies major, I'm interested in men and male
relationships. As a science fiction writer, I'm interested in people,
and politics not technology and science. As a queer/gender
theory-person, I'm interested in *gasp* male (sexual) identities, and
not (particularly) in the milieux of trans issues. As a psychologist, I
reject the way psychologists construct binary gender, and treat the
discipline as an absolute and concrete scientific study.

You call it a niche, I call it being misunderstood and unpublishable.
Having said that, I do recognize that being "contrary" will make me
different and particularly define my work. I suppose different is
preferable to being the same, as long as I can manage to not piss
everyone off and find publishers who will take my work.

--------------

Having said that, I'd really like to start writing again. I should try
and write fiction again, because I'm no poet (despite the fact that the
only good pieces of creative writing I have at the moment are a series
of poems I wrote last year). The problem with this is that I've never
been good with short stories mostly because I've never been one to read
them, and I really don't have an idea of how to go about writing fiction
that isn't science fiction. But how different can regular fiction be
from science fiction?

Famous Last Words.

