==============
Some New Years
==============

.. post:: 2011-01-04
   :author: tychoish

Typically, I'm writing my new years post on January 3rd, knowing full
well that I won't get a chance to publish it until the 4th. This
probably explains how my 2010 closed and how my 2011 is shaping out.

I've been writing emails today and over the weekend to family and
friends, making plans for various events and weekends over the next six
months. There are only so many weekends, and there is so much to do. My
preliminary outline for May/June is--I think this is par for the course
when one is a Morris dancer--exhausting, and I have five or six months
to prepare. The rest of spring is similarly exciting.

The last year was, on the whole, a good year: I have started new
relationships and enriched existing ones in was that I am quite pleased
with, I had a move that's been good for me in a number of ways, I've
been able to travel regionally a great deal, and I've learned a lot in
my travels. It wasn't all positive: I definitely didn't finish the
writing projects I wanted to, I didn't knit or read as much as I would
have liked to, and I have a number of personal projects that I'm
throwing a lot of energy into that I hope to resolve in the next few
months. But all of the low points can be directly correlated to the high
points: success requires sacrifice, and on balance it's been a
successful year.

I hope that in the new year, we all are able to have great successes,
without needing to make untenable sacrifices. I think the core of all
new years resolutions is a wish to make our lives a little bit better
than they were previously, hopefully in small manageable ways. So I'm
going to keep working on making my world (and self) a better place to be
me.

I hope, if you too are embarking on any kind of project like this, that
you will succeed, and I look forward to sharing parts of my journey with
you in this blog.

Cheers!

(real content will resume shortly, I promise!)
