=========================
Speaking for the Speakers
=========================

.. post:: 2006-07-02
   :author: tychoish

My project for the week (and saying it in this way legitimizes a week
where I read fiction for fiction's sake, and knitted for knitting's
sake) was re-reading Orson Scott Card's *Ender's Game* books, which I
really enjoyed. It was hard having read the book before (and even the
books that follow it in Card's sequence), it was like watching old
friends walk into a trap. Particularly, in this case, because the trap
was traumatic for the characters.

As an aside here, I'd like to state that the vernacular would have used
the term "psychological," which is in my mind inaccurate and inpercise
at best. Everything is psychological, particularly material reality. But
no one asked me.

I didn't record the pod-cast today. Perhaps late tonight, because of the
intense reading, my sleep schedule of the past two nights has become
particularly skewed. So it goes.

During my reading, I made note of a few things that really got me
interested. I was reading on an old Pocket PC that could make voice
recordings, so I made use of the feature and recorded two notes. The
first was a note about story telling, and I had a sudden realization
about how to play a development in my own project.

The second point, made a note about an academic interest. There's a part
about two-thirds of the way through the book where a character is
reflecting on the implications of a fabricated identity. And there it
was. The creation of identities (on a personal and community level) is a
recurring interest, and there was a passage which really brought
together a lot of really good points. So that was good.

Anyway, I'm not feeling particularly articulate right now. Perhaps in a
bit.

Be Well, Sam

