===============
Spring Semester
===============

.. post:: 2005-04-19
   :author: tychoish

Ok, So I've been a really bad TealArtist this semester. I'm breaking my
internal policy of posting my kitty of articles in order that I write
them, to bring you this one.

It's been one hell of a semester, which I hope to never really have to
endure something like this again. I'm taking a, as one of my friends
termed it, a royal ass-load of classes. All of which I enjoy a bunch,
but it means I have to cut some things out. So I've been knitting a
fraction of what I did last semester, and as you all notice, I'm sure, I
haven't been writing for you all. I assure you I'll be back in full
force as soon as this blasted period of my life is over.

The nice thing is that I can take 4 classes from this point forward,
every semester, and graduate in Spring 2007. If I wanted to, as long as
I take two psych classes and two non-psych classes, I get to do whatever
I want, basically. The downside, is I have to start thinking about grad
school stuff sooner than I'd want.

Just for a snapshot of my life right now, I'm going to be writing in a
few moments, the lit review for a special research project for a psych
professor. It's been a great opportunity, and if it gets published it'll
probably help me get into grad school a lot (the chances of which I
think are pretty likely). At the moment it's hell, and there are a
million and one nasty things I could say about this particular process,
most of them related to my utter lack of engagement with the subject
matter.

There aren't classes tomorrow, because it's spring day, which is a great
deal of fun, but I doubt that the weather will hold up, so I'll be
working a lot. On the upside, I don't have that much more to do before
the end of the year. And while I'm so ready for this semester to be
over, I'm not sure how ready I am to go home. I like it here, and the
weather is finally nice.

Bah. I love rambling Blog Entries. One of these days I'm going to
actually start writing again, by not writing actively, I kind of feel
like I'm being a slacker. I'll see you all around sometime...

Cheers!

