=======
Squares
=======

.. post:: 2007-10-18
   :author: tychoish

First a poll. A somewhat low tech one, just leave a comment. If you
read, say a science fiction book, where the name of the ships all had
dutch names, but the characters all had english names what would you
think?

*Moving on...*

I knit a square last night.

A friend is opening a yarn store in, less than two weeks (wow), and I've
been drafted somewhat, consensually, into knitting swatches for the
store. I must admit that where my mother has knit like 20 of them, I've
knit... almost 2.

The thing is, mostly that I really really hate knitting squares. Once
upon a time I disliked knitting things that weren't in the round,
because I didn't like purling. Now, I don't knit things back and forth
because I hate turning the work. It's not the movement of turning, it's
the way that this action breaks the rhythm of knitting.

I called--and I suppose still do call--the knitting section of TealArt
"the knitting savants" and I think this is completely appropriate,
because while I know a thing or two about the craft, I'm really picky
about the kind of work that I do, and only tend to knit vary specific
things, and if I have to knit something that isn't one of these things
for very long, I tend to get irritable and bored. So I'm thinking of
naming the collection of essays and knitting writings that I've been
casually working on for a while "the knitting savant," because I think
it would be cool.

Later, assuming that life doesn't come crashing in I'll post pictures of
my current knitting, though it's grown about 2 inches since I took the
pictures. I finished the border of the sweater and it's been flying
since then.

With the recent uptick in membership in
`ravelry <http://www.ravlery.com>`__, I've been getting a lot of
feedback on my stuff from the site, so I'd like to thank you all. I've
spent too long doing this whole *blogging thing* sort of in isolation,
it feels good to have a community again. And I really love ravelry, it's
great stuff and the community seems to really be "working." So huzzah!

I'll be in touch. I have a lot to ramble about, but I don't want this
post to get too unfocused, so I'll see you all right here real soon!

