===================
Standards of Living
===================

.. post:: 2009-01-16
   :author: tychoish

I think of `this article about productivity and standards of
living <http://users.ipfw.edu/ruflethe/american.html>`__ in the same
train of thought that my `best
of <http://tychoish.com/posts/best-of/>`__ post, even though I
certainly didn't write it myself. The basic idea is that given our
current levels of productivity we could have a 1948 standard of living
by working only half of what we work now. The comparison between
productivity and standards of living is, I think an interesting and
useful way to think about work, and creative output. I've written from
time to time on the subject of making a living from/while being an
artist, and I think I keep returning to that essay because it connects
with something similar in my mind.

While the productivity vs. standards of living comparison leads rather
neatly into an anti-modern "living more simply" conclusion, I'm hesitant
to subscribe quickly to a conclusion that seems so naive. Quite often
the "living more simply," (which includes organics, "green"/sustainable
production, and so forth) would seem to require a certain amount of
wealth to be able to sustain, and takes a very micro-scale solution to a
macro-scale problem.

At the same time I can respect the pleasure of living a more simple
life--and certainly the way my *digital* life continues to develop has
been along a path of greater simplicity--and I expect that as I continue
to sort out my "lifestyle," for the near future thinking about the
differences between "needs" and "wants." I don't think living more
simply, or being more conscious of excess is the same thing as living
minimally, or practicing self-sacrifice in the name of some greater
good.

At least for me, the discussion of "being effective," at the things that
really matter to me (writing this blog, being a good friend, writing
better fiction, being a productive employee, dancing, knitting, and so
forth), is intertwined with thinking about my professional life and
career--and issues of productivity there--and is intertwined with an
evaluation of material needs. It's very much a holistic effort, and I
think thinking about all these things together can help us be more
effective and derive more pleasure from the things that we do. I think
this is the case for me.

Have a good weekend, and I look forward in seeing if you have anything
to add here.

Onward and Upward!

