========================
Starting a Collaboration
========================

.. post:: 2010-01-12
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing

Alternate Title: "*How to start a collaborative writing project or die
trying,*\ "

**Step 1:** Lock yourself in your office, fire up Emacs, and write an
initial draft from beginning to end yourself.

**Step 2:** Post it on the Internet.

**Step 3:** Encourage contributions and hands on feedback from your
collaborators. Have a piece of cake.

You may thing that I'm kidding, but it's true. I think there's a
misconception that the way to write something with other people follows
a path that might look like: having a meeting to establish the common
goals and an outline of what needs to get said, and then another meeting
to divide up who is going to write want, and then people go back and
write their little parts, and then you mash them all up and everyone
rewrites their part till it meshes with the other parts, and then you
pray it says what you need it to say, and doesn't need further
revising--except it sort of dose, so you repeat the whole process over
again, to revise the text, except with editing instead of writing. And
because each stage requires endless conversation, when you don't have
the benefit of face-to-face meetings, things can take a long time: so
long, in fact, that most people will have probably lost interest long
before something has been written. The short of it is that this method,
though very democratic and open seeming, isn't.

I think there's a fear, that when a single person puts a lot of
individual energy into a text (or any kind of project, really,) and
doesn't consult with collaborators at every turn that it somehow becomes
*not a collaboration*. This is emphatically not true. There is
significant difference between endless group process and the collection
of meaningful feedback; a real distinction between a text created with a
process that involves many people, and a text that many people can agree
represents their interest, purposes, and needs.

I think, though I'm not certain, that one could replace the words
"writing" and "text" in the above, with "programing" and "code" but I
don't know for sure.

At work, I have a moto: "you can't edit it if it doesn't exist yet." The
more interesting thing, I think, in every context is when you go off
into your own office, fire up the emacs, write something, and then say
"so how does this look?" People sometimes say, "nice, but you used
'setup' as a verb in the third paragraph," or "ok, but you left out a
section about flux capacitors in section two, and I think that's crucial
for understanding most of section three," but these are problems that
are fairly easily addressed.

Now it could be the case that I'm *just that awesome* (unlikely), but I
think `it boils down to the fact that most people don't understand how
to make
texts <http://criticalfutures.com/2009/12/the-care-and-feeding-of-a-writer/>`__.
I also think that a lot of "group process," can be obsoleted by an
individual who can produce *something*, and has a good sense of the
group's desires, and who knows how to check in with various group
members at the right moments. While these skills can be listed quite
effectively, and it's true that there is no rocket science involved:
some things are easier said than done.

Not every collaboration works, and there are a lot of variables at play
in any situation where a group of people must come together to make
something, but in nearly every situation beginning with "hey, I want
make something with you, look at this draft," is better than "I was
thinking about making something with you but I wanted to get your
feedback first."

Just sayin'...

