============================
stars in my torchwood pocket
============================

.. post:: 2009-07-28
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: science-fiction, literature

Two things on the agenda. First, the third "season" of the BBC science
fiction show Torchwood, which I have recently completed. Second, Samuel
R. Delany's novel "Stars in my Pocket like Grains of Sand," which I am
two-thirds of the way through.

Act One: Torchwood
------------------

I'm a huge fan of torchwood. It's quirky, it's fun, its easy to connect
with the characters, and then there's the Ianto/Jack relationship, which
is handled amazingly throughout the entire story. The show isn't without
its flaws, of course, but it works really well.

So about this third season. It was good. While the fan in me says "I
want more stories, and episodes" and "I want more characters to
survive," and "I want to see more of characters that I didn't get to see
very much of," and "why do they leave so many fucking threads untied,"
*on the whole,* I thought it was very well executed.

I think the mini-series--as this was, undeniably--is likely the future
of television. The story telling potential is great, there are marketing
reasons why it has merit, and I think from the perspective of the
scripted television world, I think there's a lot of potential for this
sort of approach to television.

As for my quibbles with the story itself, I will attempt to not spoil
anything, but I will say, that while the sentimentalist in me would have
liked to see something different: *it worked*. Furthermore, I'd almost
be tempted to say that "more torchwood" wouldn't really work, and I
don't know that there's anyway to write a season four that would capture
"what I liked" about torchwood. It isn't a pretty as the Battlestar
Galatica ending this spring, but there's almost a similar finality.
Discuss?

If you've not watched torchwood, it is, I think, a worthwhile
expenditure of time.

Act Two: Stars in my Pocket Like Grains of Sand
-----------------------------------------------

This is an amazing book. The prose is stunning, the world that Delany
created is incredibly fascinating, and the story pulls it all together.
Amazing. Simply Amazing.

I know what happens (or doesn't happen) in the end, which but so much of
this book revolves around absorbing the ecstatic experience of the
characters, that it doesn't really seem to matter. There's also, a
second book that remains unfinished (though a portion was published in
the 90s,) and I don't expect that to be finished, pretty much ever,
though I could be surprised.

There's so much to say about the book, even with 150 pages left to go,
that saying anything seems incomplete. Despite the fact that the main
character is human, the world, and "his" world, is so totally alien.
There's this new gendered-pronoun system that the main character (and
narrator) uses, where everyone regardless of gender is "she," unless the
speaker is attracted to the referant, at which point they're "he," and
typically people refer to themselves as "women." It makes it hard to
track things, but it really works.

The other cool thing, is that there are these two ideologies that are
battling each other for domination. The conservative one, called "The
Family," take a very structuralist approach to social organization. In
today's world we might call them "conservative," but I think that misses
the point; in contrast there's the "Sygn" who take a very
radical/post-structuralist approach to social organization, which is
useful both as an example, and as it provides a very non-Utopian idea of
freedom.

This is amazing stuff, and in a *totally* different way, it's a very
worthwhile book and experience. Give it a shot if you're looking for
something good.

