==============================
Station Keeping #8: Fresh Eyes
==============================

.. post:: 2007-07-24
   :author: tychoish

*Welcome to this week's* Station Keeping *I hope you've been enjoying
the series so far. I like this episode bunches, but I suppose that goes
without saying. Before we jump into this weeks story, however, I wanted
to share with you a few developments. First, if you're interested in
participating in* SK, *or any part of tealart, check on the
`participation guidelines <http://tychoish.com/participate>`__, there's
even a special section for* SK. *As always, we live for your feedback,
and you can leave it in the comments, address it to me personally
(tycho@tealart.com) or to the writers group and I'll make sure that the
message is properly delivered. I look forward to hearing from you, and
enjoy!--tycho*

Working Overtime
----------------

Josh undid the collar of his uniform jacket--he was supposed to feel
grateful that the Navy permitted *Hanm Centre* officers wear the, only
slightly, more comfortable field variant, but he didn't--and sighed with
relief at the idea that his shift was over. "Hey, Julia, are you going
to work late, you should be done for today,"

There was a pause before she responded, and she didn't look up from what
she was doing when she said "um yeah, I'll be right there, almost done
with this file tree."

Josh chuckled. *File tree,* Josh thought that was an interesting way to
conceptualize the data, he almost left the command center, but then
thought better of it. Though *Hanm Centre* was important in the grand
scheme of things, and he loved interacting with so many different
people, it wasn't like there was all that much for them to do at this
moment. It wasn't like they had to keep the station from flying into a
black hole or anything.

"No really, you're done for today. Come with me," he said mustering as
much authority in his voice as he could. He couldn't, however, keep a
straight face.

She snapped out of her haze just in time to process what she had heard
and she chuckled. "I suppose you're right." She shut off her computer
and slowly moved out of her chair. It took her a moment to stretch out
to her full height. "I need to not get lost in work so much," she
pondered, "well whatever, I have priority to the computer core here, and
what else is there to do?"

"Well, let's see," Josh herded the on-staff databases administrator and
computer whiz into the elevator headed for the station's poorly named,
"common space."

Evening Stroll
--------------

Josh always imagined that the common spaces on the station would be more
occupied then they were. Even though the station was mostly completed,
it would still be a while before there was any regular traffic simply
because of the way space travel worked. Josh tried to be more optimistic
but at the moment, the station looked mighty dreary. "How do you are you
liking this posting?" Josh asked when they stepped out of the lift.

"Oh, it's alright. I'm something of a perfectionist with these
computers," she paused for a moment and looked at her left arm, on
which, Josh realized, Julia was caring a mini-computer terminal. "So
it's nice to be able to organize a system basically from the get go. And
besides all this gear is pretty high-tech--for the rim worlds--so that's
a plus."

"Yeah, I felt the same about the construction management when I came
aboard, but it kind of lost it's glean after a while."

"How long were you out here before the rest of us got here?"

"Few years, three and a half I think. I was on assignment a few worlds
over, and being young and unattached, they moved me out here, because
apparently I was the closest. Go figure."

"And here you are. Spend a lot of time on the rim, then?"

"A little. I grew up core-side, but figured there was more to see. And I
have to say that Hanm has really grown on me." Josh reported.

"I grew up on ships, moving about every so often, we saw a lot of rim
worlds, I can't say they did much for me. Is Hanm really that special?"

"Particularly with this station, you bet. Most important rim world, the
way I figure it." Josh was almost baffled that she didn't know Hanm.

"Everything's so far apart, I totally don't buy what the news people are
saying about the Hanmists. The league'll hold."

"You know as well as anyone that core and rim are all relative terms,
star-density is about the same, we just got to the 'core' first."

"--that's what I meant." she cut him off.

"How familiar are you with the Hanmists, anyway?" Josh continued.

"Not much, just what I grazed in the reports." she said, sounding a bit
embarrassed. *Hanm Centre* was just a job for her, she was so used to
moving around almost constantly that she had grown a thick skin for
"settling in."

"Look harder," Josh said, stopping to turn to Julia "See what's on the
nets, it probably should be part of your job."

"What do you think it's a threat? Otherwise no harm in letting people
talk about whatever they want, didn't the league learn that lesson the
hard way a few centuries ago." Julia spoke of the past as if it were
only a few months ago, which it might not have been far off, Josh
realized. He never checked to see when her objective birthday was:
relativity screwed things up so bad. It gave him a headache, and he
convinced himself that it didn't really matter.

"I don't know that I'd say threat, but it's worth keeping an eye on, and
whatever happens this place," he said, tapping his foot gently for
emphasis, "is going to care."

"I'll say."

"And what happens there," Josh pointed to the mini-terminal screen
strapped to her forearm, "is just as important as what happens out
here."

"You mean in '*reality*\ '?" she said with mock amazement and horror.
They laughed.

"Yeah," he took a deep breath, "but, just one officer to another: keep
your eyes open. Someone here needs to know what's going on," he pleaded.

"The nets are pretty cool, I'll give myself--and them--that, but they're
not that good." She said, hoping that she hadn't overcommitted herself.

"It's something. Anyway, lets keep walking: it's a big station."

*"Fresh Eyes" was written by, `tycho <http://tychoish.com/tycho>`__, the
creator of `TealArt <http://tychoish.com>`__ and [Station
Keeping](http://tychoish.com/hanm"). He is a student and knitter by day
and a science fiction writer by night, you can read his work elsewhere
on `TealArt <http://tychoish.com>`__ and at
`~/tychoish <http://tychoish.com>`__.*
