=====================
Stationed Conclusions
=====================

.. post:: 2008-11-18
   :author: tychoish

Here's another post in my
`NaNoWriMo <http://tychoish.com/posts/novel-writing-in-november/>`__
`series <http://tychoish.com/posts/the-siege/>`__. This one is about
working on new and old projects, project energy, and how projects "end."

I'm not particularly of the mind that stories are ever really "done" as
much as they are abandoned. I have an old `writing
friend <http://www.jeffkirvin.com/>`__ who rewrites and re-imagines his
stories every so often, and if you listen to him talk you'd think he's
spent the better part of the last decade revising the same couple of
texts. While I haven't read the latest iterations and am purely
speculating here, I suspect that I'd call each of these iterations
independent stories/projects. Because I like that kind of accounting.
And we all tend toward the same basic characters and story structures
anyway, besides it's not like you can *actually* write a rip-off of
yourself.

And the truth is, that's more or less what I do. A lot. `Station
Keeping <http://www.criticalfutres.com/projects/station-keeping/>`__ is
a loose rip-off (adaptation?) of what would have been my second novel
that I wrote about some tens of thousands of words on before and during
my senior year of high school. The novel fell apart, I liked the story,
but I didn't have any way of rescuing it as such, and I was busy, and by
the time I could get back into it, I needed to be working on a project
more like Station Keeping and less like a lame high-school student's
second novel.

`Knowing Mars <http://criticalfutures.com/projects/knowing-mars>`__ has
a similar history. Right before the home stretch of the first novel (see
above) I took a week of writing time to put together a prologue. I took
the "Matthew Connor" character (named, unsurprisingly "Matthew Connor,"
why? *because you can't rip-off yourself*) fast forwarded him fifty
years or so, and had him *as an old man* relate the history of telepathy
in his world. Sound familiar? Anyway, the story from that novel was
*dumb* by that week of playing around reads the world like a series of
novella length stories. I stole a lot more from that novel for Knowing
Mars, and it manages to neither be an extension nor a retelling of the
earlier story, but it's still a rip-off.

Projects don't disappear, and I don't think that they end, so much as
they go away for a while and with luck come back a little more wise and
rich.

But projects do occasionally conclude. And projects like Station
Keeping--because of it's "season"-based structure--conclude more often
than others. I'm taking a break to let the first three chapters of the
new novel project sink in, and spending some time with other important
projects like `Trailing
Edge <http://criticalfutures.com/projects/trailing-edge>`__ and Station
Keeping. It's good to visit the "old friends," and I think it's
important that stories--particularly semi-published ones--get to a point
where it's acceptable to abandon them.

It turns out, that Trailing Edge, which I thought was just a different
perspective on a similar sort of universe to a story that I abandoned
last spring, is really more like a prequel to that story, and I think
there are parts that I wrote last spring that I'll be able to drop in
largely unaffected into the "new" story. In the end, while I think it's
been a fun trip and a good experiment for Critical Futures, I'll
probably hack it down to short story length, (it's going to end up in
the novelette range) and rewrite it so that I can (try to) sell it to
the old media. Plans subject to change and the interference of reality,
of course.

On the theme of "projects ending up somewhere you didn't expect,"
Station Keeping--after 16 "Episodes" (well 15, really) of normal "column
like" stories, for the remaining eight episodes of the second season
I'll be writing in the form of a screen play. Because screen plays are
fun to write, pretty easy to read, and because Station Keeping serves as
a regular "break" from the larger stories that I post on Critical
Futures having a screen play is an even better "break" format. I was
planning on doing season 3 as a screenplay and I think it'll be fun to
just... start a little early.

That's what I've been working on in terms of fiction recently. So there.

Onward and Upward!

ps. I think it's interesting that by breaking my "don't post about
writing rule" in honor of NaNo, I've also taken to inadvertently
breaking my "don't post endlessly about your projects," rule. In any
case, I'm on it now.

