====================================
Station Keeping: Diplomacy Maneuvers
====================================

.. post:: 2007-06-26
   :author: tychoish

*Hmm, this intro looks a lot like the one from last week. I hope you
don't mind, everything remains relevant: Welcome to episode #4 of
Station Keeping. I hope you enjoy, and can welcome a few more characters
to the station keeping family. As always, this project is a
collaborative one, and I look forward to hearing from you for any
reason, but particularly if you would like to contribute in any
capacity. But please do enjoy! -- ty*

Nan Gee really wanted a drink. The bar wasn't quite open yet, but she
thought that maybe she'd be able to talk someone there out of one of
those beers sitting on the counter. She would pay, it wasn't like there
was anything else to spend her diplomatic-salary on.

David nearly jumped out of his skin when he saw her standing in side the
bar. He could have sworn that he had locked the door. "Hello there,
we're not actually open yet, as you can see," he said, point to the
exposed wiring on the wall opposite of the bar. Someday there would be a
nice light fixture there. If the designer ever got back to him, that is.

"That's alright, I just really want one of those," Nan said pointing at
the cases of beers stacked on the bar. It was a local brand that had
just been shipped up from Hanm. "I can pay." She appended, trying to
look hopeful.

David paused, unsure of exactly what to do in this situation, he had
work to do, and he didn't want the entire station getting the idea that
he was open for business. "*What the hell,*\ " he thought. "You like
them room temp?" he asked, relenting.

"That's the way we do it 'round here." She looked a bit relieved.

"Ok, well we really aren't open, but I have something to work on in the
back, why don't you join me with your beer and we can talk" David
suggested, as he turned. "Oh, whats your name, by the way," he asked as
he walked.

Nan followed the barkeep, without quite knowing why. It seemed better
than any of the alternatives that came to mind. "Right, I'm Nan, Nan
Gee: the diplomatic liaison to the station."

"Oh, right, it's a pleasure to meet you." David said, he turned at an
open door way and pointed to a chair in an office. "I'm David Conrad,
I'm just the bar owner around here, but I suspect that the Navy will
probably start begging once the communications lines are more open, but
they won't get me." He chuckled

"Oh, you're Navy?"

"Used to be. I got to the top of the game, and found there wasn't much
see. Time to move on, you know. They want me back, but know better than
to force it. It's better this way." David said looking at Nan. The
tension between the Navy and the people of Hanm was very *present* on
the station, even now, and almost entirely understandable. "So why the
rush to get a beer," it's still a bit early and all." David hoped to
deflect the conversation away from his past, he also turned in his chair
and brought up the display on his workstation.

"It's been a long day, not that bad, I just don't know what to make of
it, but I'm pretty sure that I have no power, and it's not like there's
anything else to do on the station yet." Nan was surprised at her
verbosity in front of this stranger. This stranger with a navy past,
even! But the beer tasted like home, and the decorations on the walls
were different, even if the walls themselves looked suspiciously
familiar.

"Well, I've been working like a dog to lodge all the appropriate
complaints with the new commander, about the Navy's presence here, and
so forth. Our space, 'much as anyone's, and all they do is give us
notice and expect our help when they need it, because of course this
station was built with our sweat and blood!" Nan's speed increased with
her furry, but she sipped the drink to slow her self down.

"What did Eli say?" David asked.

"Eli?"

"The new commander?"

"Oh, do you know him or something?"

"You could say that, but you already got me to talk this is your story."
David hoped that she would ignore the fact that he hadn't really told
her very much.

"Ok. Um." Nan had a bit more of the drink before she continued. "So
after sending him a series of reports and requests, he called me in for
a meeting, and he just talked to me."

"He talked? Amazing. He never used to." David was talking over his
shoulder as he worked on something on the workstation screen. "What did
he say?"

"Really?" Nan stared at a box on the wall.

David realized she wasn't really paying attention. "No, of course not.
Continue."

She did: "Well he didn't seem to have a clue what was going on between
the Hanmists and the Navy, and agreed to work with me on station policy
and governance. I didn't have anything to say. I feel like I made an ass
of myself."

"That's Eli for you, I guess."

"Being clueless? Or for making an ass of your self in front of."

David chucked: she was pretty sharp and quick after all, admirable
qualities indeed. "So you're upset, because he's a reasonable guy..."

"I suppose I am. Its hard when the bad guys turn out to be pretty nice.
Makes my job plenty hard. I wasn't ready for this wrench in the gears."
Nan's earlier anger returned, but this time it wasn't shrouded in
historical interplanetary relations.

"Well there are plenty of bad guys to go around, and lots of work to be
done."

"Aye." Nan took another quick swig. The bottle wasn't finished, but she
was. "Thanks for this, I'd like to pick your brain at some point, but
maybe at the beginning of the day rather than the end."

David's simple response of "Indeed" was both non-committal and positive.
He walked her to the door way of his half finished bar, "*This is sure
going to be interesting,*\ " he though as he watched Nan Gee walk
amongst the light crowd toward the residential section of the station.

*"Diplomacy Maneuvers" was written by,
`tycho <http://tychoish.com/tycho>`__, the creator of
`TealArt <http://tychoish.com>`__ and [Station
Keeping](http://tychoish.com/hanm"). He is a student and knitter by day
and a science fiction writer by night, you can read his work elsewhere
on `TealArt <http://tychoish.com>`__ and at
`~/tychoish <http://tychoish.com/tychoish>`__.*
