==============
Still Knitting
==============

.. post:: 2010-12-17
   :author: tychoish

This used to be a knitting blog. No really, it did. Then I got a
technology job, move east, and started singing and dancing *constantly*,
and didn't really have a lot of spare time to knit. Compound this with
the fact that I came of age as a knitter in Southern Wisconsin, and the
heavy sweaters and thick socks that were essential there were pretty
much unwearable in everywhere I've lived since.

Which isn't to say that I've stopped knitting, hardly, but I have
slowed, and I've tended to choose particularly boring projects for their
meditative quality rather than for their knitterly interest. Not that
meditative knitting is a bad thing, but it means I'm less likely to be
enthralled in a project in a serious way, which means they take longer.
Such projects are probably also uninteresting for you all to read about.
But I have been knitting and thinking about knitting things.

I gave away a *bunch* of yarn that I acquired during college and in my
dark period after college. Yarn that I got because it was a good deal,
yarn that I was given, yarn that I didn't have a plan to use, and yarn I
didn't particularly want to knit. It felt *really* good, to pare down
the stash to yarn that I really liked and yarn that I really wanted to
knit, and I've never been a serious knitter when I've had a legitimate
disposable income, so I've never really been in a position to say "I
want to make a sweater, let me go buy the *perfect* yarn for it." Now I
am, and it means I need to keep a lot less "rainy day yarn." Good
feelings.

As for what I'm working on now? I have a cowl/scarf device mostly done
in a ribbing that's my "current" project. I also have a sweater that
just needs sleeves, and the collar hem sown down, and I'm stalled on a
Alice Starmore-inspired Aran sweater (needs sleeves and some hem's)
because I'm probably going to run out of yarn, and I don't really know
how to precede properly (it's also going to be unwearably warm.) And
some socks. I seem to almost always have a pair of socks in progress,
but they're never interesting, and I don't wear many wool socks most of
the time.

I'm not sure when I'm going to have more time, but I am hoping to clear
some of the decks soon and finish some of the above lingering projects,
and perhaps move on to more exciting knitting. With luck!
