======================
Summer Report: Issue 1
======================

.. post:: 2006-06-17
   :author: tychoish

Hello all!

Sorry for being such a bad TealArt-ist of late. I guess I have a few
things of interest to tell you all about.

First off I'm starting a summer research project of my own. I'm doing
some work with cyberself-representation among gay men on a couple of
websites. I'm working from posted profiles, which makes the whole
"participant" issue much less complicated. It does mean that I'll
eventually need third party rateors to ensure some measure of validity,
but I'm still working out the kinks and doing the pilot part of the
study. It's pretty darn cool. I've got a little bit more data to collect
(for the pilot), then I have to fix the questions a bit, figure out how
to make it work in the statistics program, and then throw together a
rough lit review I think. Shiney.

I also listened to a lot of fandom related pod-casting today whilst
driving back from East Tennessee, which has left me really inspired.
What was I doing in East Tennessee you ask? another post for another
time! And what is fandom you ask? Fandom is the 'verse (as it were) that
fans of a particular segment of popular culture develop, that includes
fan fiction and art, RPGs, and fan communing. It's a noun that
encompasses all fan related activities, but fandom also frequently is
more specific and refers to a specific segment. There is celebrity
fandom, Trek fandoms (segmented more or less per series, believe it or
not), lots of Harry Potter fandom, House M.D. fandom, etc. You name it,
it's out there. And I think as a cultural phenomena, it's damn cool, and
though more tangentially the community that springs up around fandom is
defiantly a big interest of mine as a social scientist. One thing I can
write for TA in the upcoming months is some background on fan stuff.
Hell I might even find links like a good blogger. Who knows. But anyway.
Moving on; having properly defined fandom, I think it's time for a
paragraph break.

Good. Ok. So all of this podcast listening and fandom, has inspired me
to do a couple of things. First, I want to start my own fandom. This
seems like a huge undertaking, and perhaps it is, but I think it would
be cool, to develop something (and by develop something I mean use the
'verse that I developed for Circle Games (the novel I wrote during
junior year,) and make it public domain, and rework parts of the book to
see if I could get people into writing for it. While I will have to do a
little work to rewrite some parts and post them online for the world to
see, I think I want to try it out as a pod-cast, and see how that works.
This is still in development clearly, but I think it's exciting. Clearly
it requires thought, but.... Yeah. Stay tuned. Moving on.

Secondly, and a little bit related to Circle Games. By the way, I'm
still carrying the binder around with me, every time I move even, 3
years later. Despite this, it's become abundantly clear that I'm not
going to revise it. Parts of it are good, and as a whole I like the work
(hence the above project,) but I don't think it's really worth going
through page by page and revising the whole thing to create a 2nd draft
of the manuscript (hence the above project.) And the second novel
project (which I figure I'm only 1/5 of the way done with, at 20,000
words,) upon retrospection I appear to have been attempting to tell a
story without any leading characters so no wonder it fell flat. So
having come to that conclusion, I think we're due for a paragraph break.

My strike of inspiration, which seems to have "unstuckified" my writing
process after two years, is to not, attempt to flagelate deceased
equines and finnish outstanding projects as I thought they needed to be
finished when I was 17, but rather, re-imagine them as I think they
should be told today. Currently my notes include: meshing the
environments, making the motivations a little less outlandish, narrating
the stor(ies) backwards, demilitarizing the story/'vers, omitting the
awkward straight relationship (this is what you get when you write a
story as your coming out), combining the villains, taking out the space
opera feel, and making the setting seem more claustrophobic and somewhat
darker.

In my head, the re-imagination would be set 150-300 years and a relative
dark age/isolation period after the end of Another Round (the second
failed project), but that's just for my sanity. Also it helps if I'm
turing this 'verse into a public domain fandom, if I can situate/develop
an master timeline. My tentative title for this project it *Square Pegs,
Again*, another play on the circle motif, which I always rather liked.
But in any case, it's nice to be at least thinking about fiction again
in this way.

Well I think I'm just about done with this post. More later. I promise.

