==============================
Sweater Report: Norge Pullover
==============================

.. post:: 2008-01-19
   :author: tychoish

So I have a bunch of knitting pictures that I've sort of been sitting on
for a while. In part because I don't take pictures very often, in part
because the pictures are of poor quality, and in part because I'm not
terribly fond of the sweaters that I have left. But lots of people
always seem to like this sweater, so here it goes.

I've always called in my "Norge sweater," but it's just a really
*really* simple norwegian style sweater, with a few minor modifications.
Here's the basic shot..

Yarn is Classic Elite "Montera," that I got on cones at Susan's Fiber
Shop. It looked like it was pretty old stuff. It's single ply wool/llama
mix, and frankly, not quite as soft knitted up as I wanted it to be. And
a good deal heavier than you'd expect. The patterns came from the
"Traditional Scandivaian Knitting" book, and the shape was/is my own.

Though it's probably the simplest sweater I've done that has color work
in it, it was like my 2nd or 3rd color work sweater. I set in the
armholes a little bit, and you can see that in the final. I also got to
do short rows, which is nice.

Here is a detail picture of the pattern:

Things I learned from this pattern:

-  Do cuffs in 2x2 rib, 1x1 is too elastic and doesn't cuff enough. So
it's sort of limp.

-  Shape the back of the neck on a sweater. It's it can make or break a
sweater.

-  Never make a sweater collar longer than 1.5 inches, particularly in
crew neck sweaters.

-  When in doubt use the sleeves to build on and accent the body
pattern. Simplify it perhaps, but never have it be totally different.

-  Get used to using yarns designed for stranded knitting, like
shetland, and don't get all fancy on the process. Really. Works out
better that way.

-  Corollary: Accent patterns, don't well.



