===============
Sweater Stories
===============

.. post:: 2011-07-11
   :author: tychoish

I think the difference between writing technical documentation and
knitting patterns is not terribly significant, and I've been known to
talk at some length about this connection. While I've always been
technically inclined, I started writing documentation after learning
how to write knitting patterns. In the end, the things you have to
know and do to write clear instructions is less about knowing about
the technical underpinning, more about the mechanics of writing clear
instructions and understanding process abstractly.

Shortly after I started my first technical writing job, I realized
that all of the things I was learning about writing documentation was
applicable to knitting patterns. In retrospect this makes a lot of
sense to me: My interest in knitting is the process, not the
design. At about this time, I came to terms with the fact that I liked
to design boring knitting. Sweaters with plain shapes and fairly
repetitive designs, look great and have a lot of appeal but I tend to
make the same basic sweater with only minor variations, if any.

So I started writing what I hoped would be a series of essays about
designs and sweaters that I'd knit. My hope was to get a collection of
these pieces written and put together as a book, and I made some
headway in this project I never finished one of these essays. I was
writing essays that a knitter could **read and be able to knit a
sweater that looks like the one I knit, but also just enjoy the story
and a collection anecdotes**. Then, as life, singing, dancing, and
writing got in my way knitting slowed and changed, and I was working
on other writing projects, and for a thousand reasons it became a
languished project.

And then my world calmed down, I started knitting again, and after
beginning a new sweater (or two,) and I thought: it might be worth
putting a little more time into the project. Which brings us mostly to
the present.

The second piece of this is that, as a reader of knitting content
(books, blogs, etc.) I'm most interested in learning about design
decisions, creative inspirations, and how people's knitting parallels
and reflects life beyond the needles. When I look at a sweater I've
made, I can instantly remember where I was when I was knitting it, and
why I decided to attach the sleeve *just so.* The great thing about
these stories is that unlike shelf space for finished sweaters, or
potentially garish designs, they are endless and endlessly useful: as
inspiration, as comfort, and sometimes just plain comedy.

I've not written about knitting on this site
for quite a while, and I think that knitting is one of those subjects
that might be better served by a little bit of segregation from my
more regular fare. So this post is the first in a new
knitting series that I've put together. Posts will still
show up in the main index

I won't be posting full descriptions of sweaters, I want to experiment
with this writing apart from the blog and publication cycle for a
while, but I think it'll be nice to post notes on progress or on
interesting little parts of sweaters. If nothing else a little
blogging ought to make it easier for me to stay on track with knitting
for the project.

Onward and Upward
