============
Sweater Geek
============

.. post:: 2006-10-06
   :author: tychoish

So I've spent a lot of my TealArt time talking about various geek
things, which I think is good for some diversity, but I think a large
portion of what TealArt has become in recent months is knitting and
knitting related content, so I think it's only fair that I give a
knitting update.

I finished a sweater last night, it was/is my remake of "Faroe" by Alice
Starmore. There were a couple of minor pattern changes that I made in
order to get the size perfect and then to get the sleeves to fit
perfectly, and though I have to block it out, sew down the hem, and
weave in some ends, this sweater is a victory in every sense.

As the weather has chilled, I began wearing my remake of my favorite
sport sweater, and though the yarn is better, and the quality of the
workmanship is way better, I must say that I still like the old version
better. Which is fine, because I can still wear that sweater. Oh well.
It's a bit two long and the sleeves aren't long enough (I think I'm
going to re-block the sweater and see where that gets me. This is an odd
problem, but I think part of my issue is that it's awkward to wear the
sweater and have my ipod clipped to my belt. I'll need to work on this
for the next version.

I need to order more sock needles, as both of my most commonly used sock
needle sets have become unusable. I've been knitting a pair of "socks
that rock" and I'm amazed with the quality of this yarn. I suspect that
once my stash of sock yarns dwindles it is unlikely that I will ever
knit with anything else again. (for socks). This stuff is amazing. I'd
almost like to knit a sweater out of this yarn, except that it would
cost about 120 bucks for the yarn.

I need to figure something out on this regard. I want to give at least
some preliminary thought to what project I'm going to work on next,
soon, because I don't want to get too far into this project without
having a plan. I have the lace weight sweater, which I mostly need to
order good size zero needles for, but I don't know how I feel about
this. Expect to see some pondering on the subject in this space in the
future.

Be well all, I'm off to class.

Cheers, sam

