===============
Tablet Modality
===============

.. post:: 2008-12-05
   :author: tychoish

I've been using my new computer a fair piece yesterday and today, and
I've even gotten my dad using the computer recently (long story) and
it's going really well, and the speed that I've been able to get it
setup and adjusted has been really amazing. (Is there anyone else in St.
Louis MO, USA who wants to switch to linux and needs a little bit of
encouragement?)

I'm also remarkably close to getting all the way switched to linux. I
still haven't messed with my RSS feeds (still mac only on that, but
that's a user-issue as much as a technological one) and I need to bite
the bullet and get XAMPP set up on my desktop, and get something set up
to be able to share files on the network.

But I digress, this post is really about the whole "tablet computer"
thing, which was supposedly going to be "*the* next new thing" five or
so years ago. Clearly this was not the case. First of all tablets
(especially convertible tablets) are hard to get right from an
engineering perspective: more stress points and screens with digitizers
don't often look right. Secondly, there's not a lot that tablets are
*better* for than conventional laptops.

We're still better at typing than we are at writing long hand, and
applications and user interfaces aren't really designed around a
tablet-like interaction metaphor. It took apple designing a phone in
*2007* for people to realize that we might need an interaction paradigm
where you would have more than one pointer at a time (so called
"multi-touch").

I backed into this tablet thing. I realized that ThinkPad hardware was
probably the best laptop hardware for linuxification, and I knew they
had a 12 inch tablet. Since I'd been jonesing for a 12 inch laptop, more
or less since I gave up my 12 inch ibook 5 years ago, the x41/x61 tablet
seemed like the coolest thing around. When I found a great deal on one
of the x41t's, the rest is history.

What's most surprising is how much I like it.

I got the digitizer working in pretty short order and
`xournal <http://xournal.sourceforge.net/>`__ not long after that. I'm
struck by a few things. First, the "writing" experience is quite good.
I'm sort of prissy about writing long hand, and have been using fountain
pens and moleskines for years, so this is no small endorsement.
Secondly, for somethings like reading PDFs and some note taking, this
could in time totally replace my use of paper notebooks. Aside from the
whole "needing power" issue.

Would I get another tablet? Probably, though I wouldn't be inclined to
pay a great "tax" for this feature, and the fact that this is a tablet
is really nice, but not in the top few reasons why I like this computer
(size, and lightness, the lack of a touch pad, and it's
linux-compatibility.) So go figure.

It's nifty, but I don't expect things to rush towards tablets *quite*
yet.

Onward and Upward!

