============
Taking Cream
============

.. post:: 2007-12-05
   :author: tychoish

Hello friends!

I'm sorry I've been so bad about posting things lately! I even have
backlogged pictures that are ready to post and backlogged fives lists
that I haven't thrown up because it slips my mind.

I say, I better get into graduate school this time, if for no other
reason that I don't think I could take applying again and retain sanity.
But we'll see.

I have tomorrow off, from all obligations but I have to write about 7
very stressful academic pages (5 of which need to be perfect), and
scores of emails and filling out forms, plus proofreading, possibly a
phone call, some printing, revising my CV and making it look like a CV
and not a resume again. Sigh.

We had a "cold snap," which was just cold enough for me to wear one of
my comfy sweaters without being actually cold. I hope I can move north
(or a little bit higher up, even) again next year so that I don't loose
my cold tolerance.

I had a great exchange with a potential grad school advisor who I think
is really swell. I'm not elated about the prospect of moving to
*WesternCity,* but the depressing thing is that even though this prof
isn't doing queer studies work, her research is theoretically very close
to mine, closer than just about anyone else. That makes the decision
sticky, but I don't want to put the carriage before the horse, and I'm
just going to say, that I liked our email exchange.

Ok, enough blathering. I'm well. don't be mad if I'm a little spotty for
the next couple of days.

Also, `thanks to the purloined
letter <http://thepurloinedletter.blogspot.com>`__ for the link and the
kind words!

Once I have some time to my self, I am for sure going to get a little
closer to doing some group knitting projects, I just have to live
through the end of the year first. See you soon.

Onward and upward!

