==============
Talk Proposals
==============

.. post:: 2011-04-06
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: conferences, open-source

At `POSSCON <http://posscon.org/>`__ there were a lot of talks, most of
which did little to interest me. I don't think this was the fault of the
conference: I'm a weirdo. I tend to be developer-grade geeky, but am
still not a developer and I wasn't otherwise representative of the
general audience. By the end, I was starting to think that the thing
*most* people talk about at conferences isn't very cutting edge. I don't
think it's just POSSCON (surely not!) but I've not been to enough
conferences to be able to speak definitively. In any case, I'd like to
propose in open forum (i.e. this wiki,) a number of conference
presentations that I'd like to see or would be willing to present.

If you're interested in any of these presentation, or want to
help/inspire me to work up notes, please create or add to the wiki pages
linked to below.

Emacs Productivity and Production, Org-Mode and Beyond
------------------------------------------------------

Emacs, with its extensive feature list, endless customizations, and
arcane approach to user interface, is often the butt of many jokes.
While some of this is certainly valid, there are many incredibly
innovative and intensely useful pieces of software written for Emacs.
This talk would center on the org-mode package, but would branch out to
talk workflows and automation in Emacs and using Emacs to help people
make awesome work.

:doc:`Emacs Productivity </rhizome/talk-proposals/emacs-productivity>`

The Year of The Linux Desktop: Amazing Window Manager Paradigms
---------------------------------------------------------------

I'm always distraught by the way that discussion of "The Linux Desktop"
revolves around convincing people that the major desktop environments
(KDE/GNOME) either: are feature comparable to the Windows/OS X desktop
*or* are able to "out-Windows" and "out-OS X" each other/Windows/OS X.
Both of these propositions seem somewhat tenuous and unlikely to be
convincing in the long run, and do little to inspire enthusiasm for the
platform. This is sad because there is a lot of very interesting
activity in the Linux desktop space. This talk would present and explore
a couple of projects in the tiling window manger space and explain why
this kind of software is what should drive adoption of the Linux
desktop.

:doc:`Linux Desktop </rhizome/talk-proposals/linux-desktop>`

Cloud Independence, Infrastructure, and Administration
------------------------------------------------------

The "cloud computing" paradigm and the shift to thinking about
technology resources as service based raises some interesting questions
about software/computing freedom and the shape of data ownership in the
contemporary moment. This talk would address these questions, provide an
overview of how to "go it alone," and how to be responsible for managing
and administering for your own personal "cloud infrastructure."

:doc:`Cloud Independence </rhizome/talk-proposals/cloud-independence>`

