=========================================
Tea Review: Ahmad Tea's English Breakfast
=========================================

.. post:: 2008-03-17
   :author: tychoish

I mentioned the other day that after the morris dance gig on Sunday that
I got six varieties of (likely) imported British teas at a local
international food market. Because it seems in character I thought that
I'd post a few thoughts about the first tea that I've picked up.

My baseline tea is the Trader Joe's english breakfast tea. It's a really
really good tea, I've given it to other tea drinkers in a sort of blind
test and everyone's been really pleased with it. Strong, with just the
right amount of bitter. I tend to brew really big cups (my old mug was
16 oz, my current house mug is a bit more.) and somehow the Trader Joe's
tea was always just strong enough.

The issue, and the reason that over the past few months I've been
looking for a different brand is that TJ's changed the packaging. While
this means that the tea now costs less by some significant fraction, the
tea bags are now individually wrapped in paper. The plastic of their
former wrapping, while probably environmentally less friendly made the
tea bags more durable as I traveled, and I think the tea tasted more
fresh. I still get the TJ's tea, but I'm on the lookout. And it's nice
to have a little variation. Which brings us to the current tea.

*Ahmad Tea's English Breakfast*

So it turns out I'm completely unable to predict what the packaging of a
tea will be by shaking the box. This is in (very) little round tea-bags,
and not only are they not individually wrapped but there was no internal
packaging to seal the tea bags. So much on that account.

The tea is more bitter than I'm used to or would typically prefer. It's
the ideal tea, in my mind, to drink with milk. While I do take milk from
time to time, I tend to just drink it black more than not: it's easier,
you can taste it better, and I heard somewhere that any of the typically
restorative qualities of tea (antioxidants etc.) are negated by milk;
this explains why the British don't typically see the benefits of tea,
while easterners do. Having said that, while the tea was good in other
respects I can't say that I found it particularly exceptional or unique.
Good, solid, but not unique.

Practically, when I brewed a large cup with one tea bag, it tasted
pretty weak. With two bags, it was too strong and while I did drink it,
I think in the future I'll take milk with this tea. I'll make a pot in
the morning and see if I can get a better balance. The pot brews about 3
cups, so I'm thinking that 4-5 tea bags might be the sweet spot.

We'll see how future experimentation plays out, and I got two additional
varieties: their "english afternoon tea" and "english no. 1" tea, so I
will be interesting in doing some compmparisons over the next few days.

Onward and Upward!

