==========
Tea Fetish
==========

.. post:: 2008-04-05
   :author: tychoish

So, yesterday `at the
mall <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/meanwhile-in-the-real-world/>`__, we
stopped in the Tevana store. Because you know, I'm a tea drinker, and it
seemed like the place to go.

It's a cool store, as these kinds of obnoxious commercially "oriental"
things are. And I made a purchase, sort of on a whim, of tea things. I
also made a few observations about myself and my caffeine habit.

The most important thing is that I'm not a terribly sophisticated tea
drinker. I'm never going to keep a thermometer on my kettle so that I
can make sure to steep the tea in water that's 195 degrees. I am never
(on this blog or elsewhere) debate the various merits of drinking tea
steeped at 195 or 175 degrees (F). I'm also never going to rinse tea
leaves.

I also want dark hearty tea, and I'm not particularly interested in rich
or interesting flavors, or a diverse tea selection to match my mood.

But I'd like to be able to make loose leaf tea. In part because of
economy, in part because it's easier to make blends and control the
strength of the tea.

So I got a little tea brewer thing from this sore, which is brilliance.
In November we got an
`Aeropress <http://www.aerobie.com/Products/aeropress_story.htm>`__, for
the coffee drinker in the family, and it was brilliant. I sort of feel
like this tea maker thing, is brilliant, only more my speed.

Anyway. End Geek. I have to work today, and we're having a friend over
to spin this evening, which is pretty cool. But it means I have a lot of
not tycho things to do, and that I'll be pretty sparse today. Other
tycho news: I haven't seen the latest BSG or Torchwood, and I almost
have a copy of the former. I have a Feminist SF post ready to go monday
morning, and I just realized that in a week I have to teach a what
amounts to a knitting design master class at the yarn store.

So I should get on that. I hope you have enjoyably productive days.

Onward and Upward!

