=======================
TextMate/Spotlight Hack
=======================

.. post:: 2007-10-11
   :author: tychoish

Ok, so some of you probably won't find this that helpful, but here's
something I think is rather cool.

All of you should know that in OS X that the terminal command:

::

$ mdfind *******

where the \*\*\*\*\*\*\* is your search term (and yes, you can constrain
the results using a specific directory, or wildcards) will use the
spotlight framework in OS X to find files that contain your search term.
That's pretty nifty, and it's **fast**, significantly faster than the
GUI.

The next part of this hack uses a very basic shell scripting thing, that
most shell fiends know...

::

$ mdfind ******* > search.results.txt

Will preform your search just as above, but it will put the results into
whatever file you say, and make a new file if it doesn't already exist.
That's kind of cool.

Once it's in the file I open the new file in TextMate. With some quick
find and replace I escape out the spaces in the file names, and prefix
all of the lines with an "open" command, I could probably write a macro
that would do this, but I'm lazy, and the opportunity to write a
`regexp <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression>`__ every now
and then makes me feel smart.

Then, because `TextMate <http://macromates.com/>`__ is so awesome, if
you just hit ^R (control-R) when you've found a line that mentions a
line you're interested in, it will execute the line, and open the file.

As I think about it, you could omit the "open the terminal and enter the
command" step and just sort of use TextMate as a sort of de-facto shell,
but I have a terminal window triggered to a hot-key that's easy to work
from so that seems like the way to go.

Anyway, I think it's fun, and I definatly recomend using spotlight from
the command line, rather than the GUI, because it's faster, and I find
that having the information about where the file is located is helpful
for sorting out files that I know can't *possibly* be the right ones.

Good searching!

