=====================================================
The Parting Glass (Part 1 of an indeterminate number)
=====================================================

.. post:: 2004-08-13
   :author: tychoish

.. raw:: html

<div align="center">

\_Oh all the money that e'er I had, I spent it in good company And all
the harm that e'er I've done, alas, it was to none but me And all I've
done for want of wit to memory now I can't recall So fill to me the
parting glass, good night and joy be with you all

Oh all the comrades that e'er I've had, they are sorry for my going away
And all the sweethearts that e'er I've had, they would wish me one more
day to stay But since it falls unto my lot that I should rise and you
should not I'll gently rise and I'll softly call good night and joy be
with you all\_

.. raw:: html

</div>

*It's all been done, before, but just cause I think it's cool, and I
don't want to bother to ask people permission to write about them (and
symbolically altering names is kind of stupid,) I'm going to identify
characters discussed in web log with initials, or relationally. Along
with this, privacy seeking measure, I'm going to remind the readership,
that the stories I tell are important to me. If you figure out who the
other actors are, good for you, don't share. Secondly, as always, if I
leave something out of a TealArt post and you want to know more, wait
till I write more about it, or email me about it. There's some method to
my madness, usually.*

I said good-bye to A.W. today. I keep doing that, and will keep doing
that for a long time. Don't ask me why. I used to be ambivalent about
him, a problem that often got worse with interaction. Now, I've seen him
way more in the last three weeks than I'm used to, and if anything I've
gotten less ambivalent. Its funny, I'm moving away in about a week, and
this was probably the hardest good-bye, and it's not the first time (nor
the last) I've said good-bye to him.

Because I'm in a Babylon 5 mood, and really deep down, I'm just a
regular old geek fanboy, here's a couple of things from the end of
season five. Delenn, said that there's no word for "good-bye" in the
Mimbari language, because all of they left open the possibility for a
"next time." The second thing, G'kar, says good-bye to someone staying
on the station, as he makes some speech about how, if you spend enough
time in a place or with a person, you take a little bit of the
place/person with you when you leave, and you leave a little bit of
yourself behind. G'kar says something like "the part of me that is
going, will very much miss the part of you that is staying." Something
like that. Both of those ideas are kind of key to my experience.

I'm going to a party in an hour and a half where I get to say good-bye
to a bunch of the people I went to school with. I never socialized with
them very well, but we have a bond. I suppose, and I think it's
important for closure that I go to this party. Let us note, I went to
one of their graduation parties, and other than that I completely
avoided their madness. Ignoring that fact, it'll be fun, and then I get
to go to my second to last gay-youth group meeting. That'll be sad-ish.

It isn't like I'm dying, and I'll be back, but these "goodbye for now"s
are difficult. Especially in cases like A.W. where I really really want
to spend time with him.

**Update:**\ The party was a huge non issue. It was good to see and say
goodbye to the folks, but those are some pretty lame parties, and I feel
good. And then I left, and felt good for doing it. Saying goodbye to
A.W., though was still so much more amazingly difficult. Alas.

