============================
A Life Changing Laptop Riser
============================

.. post:: 2012-02-01
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: productivity, technology

***tl;Dr>*** I got one of those nifty laptop risers that puts your
laptop up closer to eye level, and it has pretty much improved all of my
interactions with computers a thousand fold *and* it's made it possible
for me to effectively use two screens. This post explores this.

--------------

One of my coworkers had a laptop stand she wasn't using and I asked to
borrow it for an afternoon, and my neck stopped hurting. I never thought
my neck hurt before, but apparently it does.

Or did.

But there's more: for years now I've kept an extra monitor around (and
had one at work) but the truth is that I have never really felt like
I've been able to get the most out of an external monitor.

Somehow, putting my laptop 4 inches in the air was the little change
that made everything better. The laptop is generally on the left of the
external monitor, and I have task lists, notes buffers, the chat window,
and my status logging window on the laptop, and then three windows on
the external (emacs buffer, terminal, emacs buffer) on the right. My
primary focus centers between the monitors, but probably edges slightly
toward the external, most of the time.

Also, I discovered that I--apparently--have a slight
processing/attention defect whereby I find it painful and difficult to
focus on things that are happening on the right side of the screen for
any amount of time. Which is weird because my right eye has always been
noticeably stronger. I'll ponder this more later.

My virtual desktops for email and web browsing are a bit less rigid, but
the same basic idea. Somehow it seems to work. I've done a little bit of
work recently to get the layouts right, to minimize the impact of the
window management of most context switching (scripting various
transitions, saving layouts, etc.) In all things are going great.

--------------

It strikes me that I've not posted here even a little about my setup in
a while. The truth is that it's not terribly surprising and I've not
changed very much recently. I'm back to one laptop, and as anxious as
having one laptop makes me sometimes (I fear the lack of redundancy,)
not having to keep it synced makes life easier. I've put some time into
doing a little bit of polish on all of little bits of configuration/code
that I have that makes my computing world go around, but mostly it's
pretty good.

It's nice, and I'd write more about it, but I want to get back to
getting things done around here. Exporting and exploring some of this
stuff in greater depth is definitely on my list, so hang in there, and
if there's something you particularly want to see, [[be in
touch\|discourse]].

