================================
The Synthesis of Science Fiction
================================

.. post:: 2007-06-06
   :author: tychoish

A good deal of the "end" parts of my recent educational experience were
synthetic projects. That is to say that to prepare for the "real" world,
I was encouraged to "look back" [1]_ in an attempt to find some sort of
salvageable greater whole. Conveniently, I rather like this approach to
thinking, writing, and production.

Maybe it's because I'm something of a second rate thinker, or maybe it's
because I'm still incredibly green, but it strikes me that coming up
with successful ideas/projects/outcomes that are **compleatly new** is
much more difficult, even impossible, whereas making--to borrow a
contemporary term--mashups is much easier, and ultimately more useful:
standing on the shoulders of giants, and all. So all this to say, that I
rather like this mode of thought, and have enjoyed trying to come up
with an account of all my varied interests--I know they're all connected
in some greater way and the connections seem obvious to me, but perhaps
not for you.

This is of course a problem here at TealArt: there's a connection
between how I approach knitting and how I think about Deleuze and
technology, or hypertext, or productivity. I swear, but I can also
understand if you all don't see it as clearly.

In parallel to all this thought about synthesis, I've rediscovered an
interest in science fiction. I was always a geek growing up and I loved
all sorts of completely embarrassing science fiction, and as longtime
readers of the site will remember I even wrote a long crappy science
fiction novel when I was in high school. These things happen to the best
of us.

I somehow got off the SF bandwagon at college. The SF club at school
wasn't my scene (with the exception of a half dozen folks), and there
were other things on my creative imagination. I did take a class my
second semester where we read Octavia Butler's *Kindred*, and I was
introduced by that class to Samuel R. Delany (who has been incredibly
influential on me for some time.) Which is a completely different kind
of SF than the stuff I grew up liking.

And then something clicked and I realized that in a lot of ways sci-fi
is the synthetic glue that holds everything together. My interest in how
individuals conceive of themselves and exist in social(ly constructed)
networks, my interest in technology and hypertext, my interest in
cultural theory. In terms of refocusing TealArt, I think the connection
between cultural theory (in this case, Deleuze) and science fiction is
particularly interesting and relevant, and worth exploring.

While I had hoped to avoid taking on the commitment for another "series"
for TealArt, I think at least occasionally, as we move forward towards
"the new tealart," whatever form that takes, I'm going to be musing
about this, a little. But because I've been "out of the world for a
spell," I'm interested in seeing what you all, kind readers, think about
SF these days. What's the future of the genre? How is it changing? What
kind of contemporary SF do you think is particularly successful?

A friend, whose very involved in
`fandom <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fandom>`__ told me the other day
that she didn't really get into sci-fi. I refused to believe her, and I
maintain that there's something about SF that appeals to an audience
beyond the typical "geek" crowd. With luck these musings will help us
explore these issues and ideas together.

Cheers, tycho

.. [1] No, really, the subtitle for one of my courses last semester
   was "looking back, looking forward." I can't make these things up.
