=================================
The Worst Technologies Always Win
=================================

.. post:: 2010-05-13
   :author: Sam Kleinman
   :tags: cyborg

This post is the culmination of two things:

1. `Who wants to be a PHP
Developer? </2010/05/who-wants-to-be-a-php-developer/>`__

2. An ongoing conversation I've had with a number of coworkers about the
substandard technologies that always seem to triumph over the
"better" options.

The examples of the success of inferior technologies are bountiful.
MySQL's prevalence despite some non-trivial technical flaws (around
clustering, around licensing as highlighted by the Oracle merger); PHP
as the *de facto* glue language of the web despite the fact that every
other language in it's class is probably a better programming language
(e.g. Python, Perl); VHS and Beta Max; BlueRay (which are proprietary
and a physically less durable media) and HD-DVD; and so forth.

The factors are (of course) multiple:

- Marketing.

People have to know about technologies at some stage in their
development if the technology is to take off. I'm not sure what that
crucial point is, and frankly marketing is something that not only *I*
don't understand, but I don't *really* think *anyone* understands.
Having said that, I think it's clear that technologies don't compete
simply on their technical merits, and this is in recognition of that.

- Timing.

Technologies that appear at the right time, with regards to availability
of alternatives and the needs/interests in the market on those
technologies matter a great deal, and can sometimes tip the balance
between competing technologies. Arguably MySQL beat PostgreSQL not
because it was better, but because it existed in a *firm* way a little
bit earlier. Linux "won" market share over BSD, because BSD wasn't quite
fully free/open source (or available) in 1990-1992 when Linux was taking
off.

- Momentum.

A project that doesn't look like it has energy and a large team behind
it is probably doomed to fail on some level, not because it's a bad
technology, but potential users of a technology need to feel confident
that it's going to stick around. If no one is excited about it, then
it'll never win, even if it's superior in the final analysis.

There's nothing, really, to be done. I think the truly superior
technologies might benefit by paying attention to these factors *when it
matters*, but then the developers of said technologies are probably less
interested in marketing and proper timing than the competition. Which is
perhaps as it should be.

I guess the lingering questions that I'll leave you with relate to
thinking about the ways that open source and free software relate to
other technologies. It strikes me that while there's a pretty good
balance between open source and proprietary technologies in the examples
I provided above, all of the open source technologies were
commercialized very early on and very intensely in a way that none of
their competitors really did. Are "wining technologies," a mystification
of the proprietary technology world? Can community-based open source and
free software technologies innovate and "win" in relation to their
competitors?

I look forward to sorting out the answers in the comments. Onward and
Upward!

