==================================
The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald
==================================

.. post:: 2003-11-10
   :author: tychoish

On November 10, 1975, The Edmund Fitzgerald sunk in a storm on Lake
Superior. All hands were lost: 29 people died. I'll leave you with this
account of the events, and the lyrics to the Gordon Lightfoot song
(because it's next to impossible to understand him singing it) that
immortalized the event.

.. raw:: html

<div align="center">

**The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald** *--Gordon Lightfoot*

The legend lives on from the Chippewa on down Of the big lake they call
Gitche Gumee The lake, it is said, never gives up her dead When the
skies of November turn gloomy.

With a load of iron ore - 26,000 tons more Than the Edmund Fitzgerald
weighed empty That good ship and true was a bone to be chewed When the
gales of November came early

The ship was the pride of the American side Coming back from some mill
in Wisconson As the big freighters go it was bigger than most With a
crew and the Captain well seasoned.

Concluding some terms with a couple of steel firms When they left fully
loaded for Cleveland And later that night when the ships bell rang Could
it be the North Wind they'd been feeling.

The wind in the wires made a tattletale sound And a wave broke over the
railing And every man knew, as the Captain did, too, T'was the witch of
November come stealing.

The dawn came late and the breakfast had to wait When the gales of
November came slashing When afternoon came it was freezing rain In the
face of a hurricane West Wind

When supper time came the old cook came on deck Saying fellows it's too
rough to feed ya At 7PM a main hatchway caved in He said fellas it's
been good to know ya.

The Captain wired in he had water coming in And the good ship and crew
was in peril And later that night when his lights went out of sight Came
the wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald.

Does anyone know where the love of God goes When the words turn the
minutes to hours The searchers all say they'd have made Whitefish Bay If
they'd fifteen more miles behind her.

They might have split up or they might have capsized They may have broke
deep and took water And all that remains is the faces and the names Of
the wives and the sons and the daughters.

Lake Huron rolls, Superior sings In the ruins of her ice water mansion
Old Michigan steams like a young man's dreams, The islands and bays are
for sportsmen.

And farther below Lake Ontario Takes in what Lake Erie can send her And
the iron boats go as the mariners all know With the gales of November
remembered.

In a musty old hall in Detroit they prayed In the Maritime Sailors'
Cathedral The church bell chimed, 'til it rang 29 times For each man on
the Edmund Fitzgerald.

The legend lives on from the Chippewa on down Of the big lake they call
Gitche Gumee Superior, they say, never gives up her dead When the gales
of November come early.

.. raw:: html

</div>


