==================
The TealArt Herald
==================

.. post:: 2007-08-06
   :author: tychoish

Well it's been an eventful, if not entirely productive week. As I'm sure
you saw on `tychoish <http://tychoish.com/posts/122/>`__, my plans to
go to graduate school next year at the University of Chicago, fell
apart. While this is certainly a wrench in the machinery, I've taken the
opportunity to tighten some bolts, and I think I have a plan. Although I
spent much of my free time last week watching the fourth season of
Farscape, which was utterly enjoyable.

My knitting projects are progressing, and the novella is about 1000
words long after it's first week, and I'm pretty happy with that. I'm
still having this crisis over how to write the gender (or more
precisely, lack thereof) of a couple of characters, and I'm trying like
the dickens to just get into the story and not blather too much, despite
wanting to blather a lot. I expect to finish up *Station Keeping, Season
1* this week. We're almost there, so it's just a matter of pulling some
stuff into shape. I have articles and article ideas floating around my
head so there'll be essays.

Though I can make no promises, I'm also feeling a design impulse coming
on, so there might be a new design sometime soon. We can only hope.

There's new *SK*, of course, but here's the deal... The end of the
season was rushing up on us, and we had a lot of things that we wanted
to get done, and my installments were getting a bit long. So rather than
just post one long *Station Keeping* episode every week, we're going to
break it up. New *Station Keeping* on Tuesdays **and** Thursdays this
week and next, and the following week--the last week of Station Keeping
for at least a month---there'll be new station keeping every day.
They're individually a bit shorter than what we're used to every week,
but in the end you get more.

As always I want to remind you about `particpation in
TealArt <http://tychoish.com/particpate/>`__. This is a community
project, and it isn't *all* about me, and what I have to say. You're a
part of this project as well. While we won't be posting *Station
Keeping* for a while, we are going to be working quite feverishly on the
project, in addition to our regular content, and you're of course
invited to participate. I hope to hear from you.

In terms of other content, I've decided to move "Better Living through
Regular Expressions" to Fridays, because I think that sort of
lighthearted good fun, is more of a Friday thing than Wednesday thing.
For wednesday, I have the first in a two-part productivity/writing
related musing. I think you'll enjoy it.

We'll be in touch. Have a good week.

cheers, tycho

