======================
The Disillusioned Geek
======================

.. post:: 2003-03-28
   :author: tychoish

A lot of people are pretty good with computers, a lot of people are
reassembly geeky but I'm about as good as they come. I mean there are
people who have degree's in Computer Science and Information
Science/Technology who can do stuff that I can't, more because I don't
have the training than because I'm incapable of the task. I can navigate
my way through the internet and I'm always on top of new developments,
anymore through circumstance and coincidence than through any active
effort on my part. In addition to all of the mainstream sources that
seem to have a direct wire into my brain, I'm very tuned into the human
side of the internet, and have a lot of connections and helpful friends.
The whole world really is at my finger tips. But being an A-list geek
isn't all about the internet and being connected, it's also about being
able to navigate local programs and possessing the ability to optimize
your software so that it fits with my working style, rather than
optimize my working style to fit with the software. Its also about being
able to understand, even on the most fundamental level, how programming
works, and the nuts and bolts of everything fits together, this isn't to
say that you should be able to program or debug on your own, but you
should be able to follow and exploit the kinds of logical process that
programmers use. And you know what? I got it. I got it all.

I doubt a lot about myself. A whole lot. My ability to succeed
academically, my writing, my completion, my indecisiveness, and so
forth. I think I'm allowed one area where I can completely kick ass in,
one area where I can say "I'm just as good if not better as anyone out
there," and feel good. I'm not being standoffish here, it's the truth.

But there's a problem. I don't care. It's not so great, knowing how to
do all of these things is all well and good, but there comes a point
where you have to step beyond the screen and make it into something
more. Look at the big picture and see that computers are a tool to
accomplish your goal. People forget that too often or at least the
normal brand of geek hasn't moved beyond the "computers are a tool"
clause.

An example. Mobile Technology. The people who are really into mobile
technology, or at least the ones who do really good with publishing
about mobile tech are people who don't really use the tech, because they
spend most of their day in front of big computers that do everything
they need, and the truth of the matter is that they are thus unable to
regularly put their units under the kinds of realistic tests that us
normal people live with day in and day out. In this environment the
geeks become people who have moved from using a technology because it
helps them accomplish essential tasks to using a technology because
"it's the coolest most exciting new thing around and it can do all of
these fancy things, dude!"

And it goes beyond that. It goes beyond one sector, one area. The
problem is that the geeks are moving in directions and doing things and
removing the purpose and point, and moving the whole realm of geekyness'
into an area that that has ceased to serve an end. And I've become
disillusioned.

*On a mostly unrelated note, I some how managed to break the display
function for the comments on here, but posting comments should still
work, even if you can't see them. In other news we've decided to open a
Notebook-type site but we're still working on names. Another day or two.
And that personal update is coming, and will probably come out in
conjunction with the aux site.*

*And By the Way this is Entry Number 100. Between Quotes and Links and
the Journal and all of the test entries I was forced to do to get the
delay in positng to disapear, we've hit 100. Here's to many more.
Cheers.*

