========================================
The Things That Make Me Weak and Strange
========================================

.. post:: 2008-08-22
   :author: tychoish

I read `Cory Doctorow's <http://craphound.com/>`__ recent story on the
new `tor.com <http://tor.com/>`__ site, "`The Things that Make Me Weak
and Strange Get Engineered
Away <http://tor.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=story&id=2993>`__."
and it left a funny taste in my mouth.

The story is well told, and I read a lot of Cory's stories and listen to
his podcast and so forth, and as a result I'm pretty familiar with the
kinds of issues that he's writing about, because I've heard him talk
about a lot. Which is fine, just back drop. Anyway, this is a story
about a future police state where dissidents go missing all the time,
where everyone's spying on everyone else, and where *habeas corpus* and
due process are suspended/withdrawn.

You may choose to call this the logical extreme of the "post 9/11"/war
on terror policy that's given us the TSA and the Department of Homeland
Security. I think that's pretty clearly the intention of the story.

You may also choose to think of this story as depicting fascism. Which
it does, basically. I think this is a pretty dangerous, move and though
I was initially struck by a few other jarring aspects of the story, when
I thought about it more, I realized that the combination of "the logical
extreme of post-9/11 fear" and "fascism," was pretty troubling.

--------------

I should interject and this is a bit of a spoiler that the story has a
dark ending where, the character is given the choice to either go back
to his old life as a double agent or get sent back to the gulag. And
he's going to go back as a double agent, but he doesn't and before he
can tell anyone what's up he gets taken back by the police and it ends.

--------------

Here's the thing, fascism has never appeared *without* the assistance of
some sort of violent extra-legal action. Hitler had the SS *and* he
bombed the parliament. Franco overthrew the government in a war.
Mussolini had a personal police force with which to wreak havoc. We
could think of other examples, but really I don't think that this is a
terribly original process. I think it's fairly safe to say that *fascism
isn't the result of slowly eroding the liberty of a fearful population
until people wake up one morning and realize that they're slaves, but
rather a process of creating fear and then grabbing power for a falsely
relieved population.*

I know that this is a cautionary tale and that this story takes a
current phenomena to a logical extreme to inspire us to get upset about
the little erosion of civil liberties. The thing is that false
consciousness (and fascism as an extension) isn't something that you
have to slowly lull people into, it's something that's *always already*
active in the political sensibilities of a people. Better, I think to
get mad about surveillance and an erosion of privacy not out of grief
for a lost freedom, but because oppression and societal norms needn't be
fascist to impinge upon the quality of our lives or do harm. And always
be vigilant in the crusade against false consciousness and fascism, but
don't become confused into thinking that the vestiges of fascism are
it's cause or sole offense.

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!

