===============
The Emacs Alert
===============

.. post:: 2009-03-05
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: emacs, internet

So I get a `Google alert <http://www.google.com/alerts/>`__ in my RSS
reader for "emacs," this way when anyone mentions *that* operating
system text editor on the Internet, I *know*.

I did it, initially, as a gimmick. The interesting thing, is that it's
been really interesting. In the grand scheme of things, I'm pretty new
to emacs so I'm like a sponge for new information. I've learned,
chiefly, about `emacs-fu <http://emacs-fu.blogspot.com/>`__, which is a
delightful little blog.

Perhaps more interesting is the fact that fully half of the sites that
pop up on the emacs alert are sites that I'm already familiar with, or
worse (better?) things that I've written. This leads me to think that
the active discussion/community regarding emacs is actually pretty
small, in a day to day sort of way.

It's possible that most people who use emacs don't feel the need to
really talk about it, but given how vehemently many people feel about
emacs that doesn't seem terribly likely. It's also possible that emacs'
niche is shrinking in the face of competition from the Java IDEs,
TextMate, and Firefox.

Another theory is that most of the conversation regarding emacs happens
on the `emacswiki <http://www.emacswiki.org/>`__, and that the sort of
"here's a protip, about emacs," is *too much* of a niche, and not the
kind of thing that's really appreciated, so the blogging happens here
and there. Or... no one's doing search engine gaming/hacking (SEG? SEH?)
on emacs, so the alert isn't clogged up with crap from dweebs and
industry.

In whatever case, it's interesting. Or interesting enough.

Onward and Upward!

(ps. sorry for the short post and the weird schedule this week. Next
week should be better. --ty)

