==================
The Historical Gay
==================

.. post:: 2004-04-21
   :author: tychoish

I came across this article today, which raises an interesting
historagraphical question. But seeing that TealArt too easily descends
into philosophical blathering, I'll just throw this one out.there.

How appropriate is the queer theory historical search for likely
homosexuals? And is "outing" famous historical (regardless of other
judgments) a productive practice.

Lets first remember that the term "homosexual" dates to the 1890s and
while there were certainly people who were homosexual before 1890, the
idea of categorizing individuals based on affectional orientation didn't
really exist before that. Having said that, "homosexuals" did face
suppression and any number of torments, it was just produced on a
different level.

So for any number of reasons, there is a certain movement to reclaim the
gay history. Because there are tons of historical figures who were
almost certainly gay, but that gets lost. It was also probably lost in
the moment, but it's equally important to remember now.

If Hitler was gay, as the article suggests, is there a responsibility to
reclaim that as well. Just yesterday there was a bit about a respected
statesman and President. This guy, was a southerner, and not
surprisingly pro-slavery. So I guess one of the questions, is "Do we
have a responsibility to reclaim all of the gay history that we find, or
just the parts that suit us. And I guess I'd say, we should reclaim it,
if only to show a kind of diversity. There are queers everywhere, and I
think that's an important lesson. You can go anywhere and find gay
people; they exist outside of the hip coffee shops, the left bank of the
Seine, Men's Express, Abercrombie and Fitch, and so forth. The one down
side is, of course, that homophobes will inevitably take revelations
that condemnable characters like Hitler are endemic of homosexual
culture, but then those same individuals will look at the guys on the
left bank wearing shirts from Express, and talking about "Art", and
categorical label all queer's as pansies. There are some fights you just
can't win.

On the other hand, this is ultimately a form of outing. Clearly it's not
the same as outing contemporary figures, but to some degree. I agree
with Armested Maupin et al. that outing people will show that queers can
be successful; that queers really are everywhere, and that the world
hasn't ended yet. History is perhaps the ultimate venue for this, as we
are able to avoid the serious ethical dilemma that prevents or should
prevent outing of contemporary figures.

So here's the second question that this raises (and I'll leave you with
this): Where is the line between outing contemporary figures, and
reclaiming a gay history?

Cheers!

