====================
The Voice of TealArt
====================

.. post:: 2007-07-23
   :author: tychoish

It's (just after midnight at the time of writing on) Monday, and that
means I'm already late for my "what's coming up this week in TealArt
post." The answer: great new things.

There's a station keeping story that I adore coming up, of course. I
also, have to say that we're gearing up for the "season" finale and I'm
rather excited. It's going to be a lot of fun to write, and I've put the
ball in motion. I think that's about all I'm going to say now. But I
also spent a great deal of time this weekend working on Station Keeping
stuff, and I have a really fun story (it's a screen play, for reading,
but still) that's almost ready, and another one that's all ready to
write.

I've learned a lot from this season of Station Keeping, there are things
that I'm going to do differently next season (but particularly in the
season that follows), and I'm pretty excited about that. While I think I
was hopeful that it would happen in a slightly different way, I think it
was good that it happened the way it did, and we'll see how it develops.

I spent a lot of time writing this weekend, particularly, a somewhat
lengthy treatise on toe-up/stranded socks. This is a paying project, so
I'm excited about that, and in reflection, while I was a bit cranky
about my output this weekend, I'm realizing that I probably wrote about
5,000 words, which is nothing to sneeze at.

But you probably care more about what's coming up on TealArt, and less
about what I'm doing, becuase you'd be reading
`/tychoish <http://tychoish.com>`__ if you wanted to know what the tycho
was up to. Right? Right. Ok moving on.

There'll be more regular experssioning this week. I do so love those,
and as I learn more about Regexp, I'm getting better and writing
"jokes," so that's good too.

I have something for Friday, but no great promises about what and how
much, yet. These things happen.

And finally, I wrote up some `particpation/submissions guidelines for
TealArt <http://tychoish.com/participate>`__, to outline and explain all
the ways that you, yes you, can participate and contribute to the
ongoing project of TealArt.

Thanks for being here,

tycho

ps. I'm extremely wiped (see the aforementioned 5,000 words, upon second
count, I think it might have been more like 7,000 words, though I make
no claims about the quality), and so if some of the capitalization is
*ahem* particularly "18th century", I apologize.

