=========================================
The Entry Where Sam Becomes a Behaviorist
=========================================

.. post:: 2006-04-13
   :author: tychoish

Ok, so I've spent three semesters saying "behaviorism sucks"
essentially, because, I was (wrongly) under the impression that it
ignored phenomenological concerns like, you know, cognition. Behaviorism
has the animal/empericism problems, which I still object too, but I
think as a theoretical outlook/explaintory framework, it's not as
corrupt as I thought it was.

I've also been disgruntled by cognitivism, for much the same reasons,
that it reduces the impact of experience, and seems to assume that
cognitive patterns, because they're *in our brains*, are the result of
essential or innate characteristics, and not themselves, conditioned

I think cognition is critically important to psychology, as is
recognizing the importance of, if not exactly the impact of situations
on behavior, then the development/contexts that produce (condition) the
individual.

I've been saying for--well, weeks--that (noted queer theorist) Judith
Butler, has a bunch of really great ideas that I rather appreciate about
how gender and sexuality happen, in the Foucaultian tradition, but then
attempts to explain the mechanisms behind these theories with a
psychoanalytic framework, which strikes me as an *always already*
failing proposition.

She's not the only post-structuralist who does this, and I find this
troubling. In order to accept psychoanalysis you basically *have* to
accept a likely inaccurate view of non/un-concious, and what is
ultimately a structuralist understanding of human development. No matter
how you shake that up, it still rests on those tenants, and I'm not
convinced that Kristeva did a particularly good job of escaping that.
(Not that I have anywhere enough unused brain cells to get her).

But anyway, There you have it. I could offer a conclusion synthesizing
my exact position on the social/cognative/behavioral playing field, but
that's not ultimately useful, and sufice it to say, I feel like I have a
much better grounding. The downside is that I have to look at a lot of
different grad programs now.

School has been busy, after this next week, I think things will be much
nicer. I promise to report more.

Cheers, sam

