======================
The TealArt Post-Times
======================

.. post:: 2007-08-27
   :author: tychoish

This week. This week has snuck up on me a bit, sorry for getting this
post out later than we've become accustomed to. I liked having one
project for all of last week on TealArt, but it means that I'm a bit
behind the swing of things for this week. There will be posts this week.
For sure.

I think That I'd like to repost installment #12 of season 1 of *Station
Keeping* in one entry, to make for a better better reading experience. I
might make a point of reposting all the entries that I split up as part
of the ramp up to the end, but I might backdate those so that they don't
muck up the progression of TealArt as a blog such as it is. I'd also
like to get a "Season 1 Roundup," up at some point soon. As you can
probably tell from my use of verb tenses here, I haven't done this yet.

That's because I was working on this "open source knitting" project that
I've been milling over for a few days now. I wrote a series of five
TealArt style posts, `outlined
here <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/open-source-knitting/>`__ that I think
lays down some good framework for my work in the future on creating some
documentation for knitting in an open-source framework. The first of
these essays will go up this week, but I don't think it would be right
to go full bore with them yet, but in the next couple of weeks I'll get
them all out, and hopefully by then I'll have laid enough of the behind
scenes groundwork laid to go forward with the project. It's cool, so
stay tuned.

The other thing I did this weekend, was to get some very good work done
on my novella project. I was describing it to someone as sort of
"enjoyably classic space opera, with a touch of cyber-punk" but then I
realized that it wasn't really classically style, nor was it in any way
space opera, and the tone is rather upbeat for cyber-punk. So whatever;
classifications are for weenies and people who have finished product, as
I have neither this debate can wait. This means that I have drafts of
the first two "chapters", and a pretty good looking one-page outline of
the third chapter. I really enjoy how this is panning out, and it
remains a great deal of fun. I've never considered novellas before, but
the pacing is really fun, and while I'll be more comfortable when I
cross the 10k word mark, I'm really pleased with how this is coming out.
How does this relate to this week in TealArt? Well it does--in
part--explain why I don't have anything better to share with you right
now, but I would expect that in addition to the knitting pieces, I'll
probably be writing a bit in the future about writing and science
fiction related topics, because that's on my mind.

I hope you all stay well. And I'll see you throughout the week.

Cheers, tycho

