===============
The Bottom Edge
===============

.. post:: 2008-04-28
   :author: tychoish

So at the end of `the entry on
friday <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/latvian-dreaming/>`__--in short--I
said to cast on 320 stitches, using an elastic method in your background
color, join being careful not to twist, and knit 2.5 (ish) inches in K2
P2 bi-color (corrugated) ribbing. This time around I'm purling in the
background color and knitting in the foreground or contrasting color.

But wait, you ask, "you said the key number of stitches was 344?" Yep it
is. And then you ask, "Why cast on fewer stitches? and why did you
choose corrugated ribbing? and while we're at it, I think I want to have
a hemmed edge or make a cardigan and not a pullover!"

In response: Hang on, I say. This week we're going to cover all these
issues. Starting today with why I've chosen this ribbing and why I
decided to do this. Tomorrow we'll cover the stitch count issue.

A lot of my sweaters of late have had provisional cast ons, followed by
turned hems. I'm putting ribbing on this one, because it's been a while
since I've done a sweater with a ribbing, so this seemed like it would
be the case. Also, for some reason that I can't explain I'd never done
the "cast on in the color your going to purl in" trick, even though it
is in retrospect pretty obvious. By doing it this way, you're not
purling into stitches of a different color, and this keeps the ribs more
"clean looking."

Also, I think that this pattern is *very* small scale, and a little bit
of a different texture seemed like a good idea.

If you want to put a hem on this one just cast on 344 (provisionally)
with a crochet chain and the background and start into the pattern on
the next row. You could knit the facing first, but I've always found
that hems sew down better when done last.

