====================
the internet run dry
====================

.. post:: 2008-04-04
   :author: tychoish

I seem to be getting really efficent when it comes to reading all of my
usual "reads," Like, I can get through my eighty feeds and my LJ friends
page, and other internet checking in twenty minutes or so. I check both
throughout the day, ususally, so it's not like thats the only time I
spend on the interent (ha!) but it means that I don't have as much time
to get the brain rolling in the morning as I used to.

A couple of points. While I'm sticking with Mars Edit, for this post
too, I'm not quite sure that I'm ready to jump ship back from my
`TextMate blogging
bundle <http://blog.macromates.com/2006/blogging-from-textmate/>`__ and
`subversion <http://subversion.tigris.org/>`__ bundle that I've been
using for many months now. I really like keeping the subversion archive
as it works with all of my other work/backup etc. At the same time, it's
totally overkill and it's not like, in the last six months, I've ever
really gone in and done anything with the backups that I'm keeping in
subversion, and it would make my checkout quicker if I didn't have so
many blogging files.

But as I was thinking about this I discovered soemthing interesting that
I want to share with you: since I've been writing my entries this way,
I've amassed nearly *two megabytes* of text files containing blog
entries. And I should point out that I'm closing in on *four hundred
thousand words* blogged in the last two years.

Good g-d folks. That's absurd.

Speaking of absurdity, I have today off, so there will be knitting and
there will be writing about it. And other things too.

Onward and Upward!

