==============================
The TealArt Post-Intelligencer
==============================

.. post:: 2007-07-30
   :author: tychoish

Good Monday!

I hope that you weekend was productive and restful. I think I was able
to get a lot done and still have some time to relax and knit. I've been
working on a sweater that I'm using a different sort of construction
method (and modality, really) than I often do, and it's taking a fair
bit of brain power to keep things straight, but I think I've been
neglecting my knitting for a while and it's certainly interesting to see
how I function (or don't) in its absence. Thankfully it doesn't take a
lot of knitting time for me to get refreshed. I think I've managed the
distinction between dedication to my craft and obsession.

In terms of TealArt this week, I'm inclined to say that "we're back!"
But then I realize that you probably haven't noticed much, because I've
been covering my tracks pretty well. I've been pretty low on writing
mojo, and/or I've been spending writing mojo in non-TealArt places:
knitting patterns, *Station Keeping* projects that won't go live for a
year, and so forth. I was able to get my act together this weekend and
get some content ready for this week.

There will be *Station Keeping* this week, as you've grown accustomed
to. Though I think it is worth mentioning that we're drawing close to
the end of our first season: next week, I think, we'll start getting
ready for the finale. Which means more Station Keeping for a few weeks.
When we're done, we'll be on hiatus for about a month, while we get
ready for the second season. Have no fear, there'll still be *SK*
related content, just no stories for a while so we can collect
ourselves, and figure out where we're going.

There is of course another encounter in "Better Living through Regular
Expressions in the land of  [1]_:" Pure joy. I have a call for you, If
you have a regular expression form or template that you've written for a
script or that you use in your day-to-day life, send it in to me and
I'll see if I can forward it to the guys ([GH]) and we'll see what we
can do with it.

Which brings me again to promote my nifty
`particpation <http://tychoish.com/particpate/>`__ page, which you might
be interested in checking out if you want to contribute to *Station
Keeping,* or any other part of TealArt. We're a group project, and that
means having a group and a community is of great importance to the site.
Just so you know.

On Thursday, I'm posting the long awaited sequel to one of TealArt's
enduring classics; and I have, of all things, a post about creativity
and productivity for friday. I hope you'll enjoy.

Anyway, I have to get ready for work, but I've gotten a renewed interest
in `twittering <http://www.twitter.com/tychoish/>`__ of late, and for
the up to the minute tycho, this is probably the place to check things
out. Twitter's are of course collected for a time in the site sidebar.

I'll see you all around. Be in touch!

Cheers, tycho

ps. The new job that Chris talked about a while ago starts today, if I'm
counting right. Huzzah for him--and good luck.

.. [1]
GH

