================
The Real History
================

.. post:: 2008-06-06
   :author: tychoish

A year ago, I read a book on the history of academic women's studies
called: "When Women Ask the Questions: Creating Women's Studies in
America," by Marilyn J. Boxer. While I'm sure some of my classmates
would describe the book as staid and boring, I thought it was bearable
at the least. I'm sure they'll all comment if I miss the mark on this
one, but I thought that it was pretty complete and accurate.

I got the feeling that despite the fact that history is largely an
interpretive endeavor and therefore not apt for judgement of "true" and
"false," but I remember from this book getting the sense that she
reported a series of events that, in fact, really did happen, pretty
much the way she said it.

Now, to be fair, maybe the reason I felt this way is that she was
telling a narrative that I was familiar with, and could then--and
particularly now--supplement as needed. But I think there might be
something more.

Boxer (and there are other historians who do this; we'll get there in a
second) accomplishes this because, rather than angst and attempt to
eliminate her bias' it's just out there. These histories are effective
because the writer is very through and on top of that reader always
knows where the author stands. At the same time

I was talking with my parents about this, and they immediately citied
Trotsky's *History of the Russian Revolution* as a similar sort of
thing, which--though I am much less familar--I think is a much less
insular example of this same kind of sub-genere.

I think it's a cool kind of writing/book, and I tend to think of my
historian characters as fitting into this model (this is how this
connects up with the previous post), but I'm interested in hearing what
the rest of you with an interest or expertise in history have to say
about this.

