===================
The Meaning of Work
===================

.. post:: 2010-06-22
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: academia, research, literature, publishing, open-source, labor

I've started to realize that, fundamentally, the questions I'm asking of
the world and that I'm trying to address by learning more about
technology, center on work and the meaning and process of working. Work
lies at the intersection of the all the things that I seem to revisit
endlessly: interfaces, collaboration technology, cooperatives and
economics institutions, and open source software development. I'm not
sure if I'm interested in work because it's the unifying theme of a
bunch of different interests, or this is the base from which other
interests spring.

I realize that this makes me an incredibly weird geek.

I was talking to `caroline <http://twitter.com/aetataureate>`__ about
our respective work environments, specifically about how we (and our
coworkers) relocated (or didn't) for our jobs, and I was chagrined to
realize that this novel that I've been working at (or not,) for way too
long at this point spends some time revolving around these questions:

- How does being stuck in a single place and time constrain one agency
to effect the world around them?

- What does labor look like in a mostly/quasi post-scarcity world?

Perhaps the most worrying thing about this project is that I started
writing this story in late August of 2008. This was of course before the
American/Financial Services economic crash that got me blogging and
really thinking about issues outside of technology.

It's interesting, and perhaps outside the scope of this post, but I
think it's interesting how since graduating from college, my "research"
interests as they were, all work them into fiction (intentionally or
otherwise.) I suppose I haven't written fiction about Free Software/open
source, exactly, but I think there's a good enough reason for that. [1]_

I'm left with two realizations. First, that this novel has been sitting
on my plate for far too long, and there's **no** reason why I can't
write the last 10/20 thousand words in the next few months and be done
with the sucker. Second, I'm interested in thinking about how "being an
academic" (or not) affects the way I (we?) approach learning more about
the world and the process/rigor that I bring to those projects.

But we'll get to that later, I have writing to do.

.. [1]
I write fiction *as* open source, in a lot of ways, so it doesn't
seem too important to put it *in* the story as well.

