================
The First Person
================

.. post:: 2003-02-27
   :author: tychoish

I'm ambivalent towards myself, or at least I'm ambivalent about writing
about myself; and no this isn't going to turn into an about page. I
think we learn a lot of things from reading high quality work, but on
the same token I think we learn even more from reading lower quality
work. From this we can figure out what not to do, and learn from
mistakes before we even have a chance to make them.

One thing that I saw a lot during my examination of the various crap
that's floating around the web is that the first person is a delicate
thing that can easily be used to create complete crap. What ends up
happening is that rather than create the impression of a fictional world
and story, the author isn't removed from the story and it seems very
false and autobiographical, even when the author doesn't intend for it
to be.

Additionally, it's far easier to write "I think, feel, act and breathe
like this," rather than work on writing something that's more removed
and distant. Using I statements is a crutch that too many authors, in my
opinion, rely on without reason, and so their choice of narrative person
isn't based on what's going to make the story most effective, but what's
easiest to write.

For these reasons, I'm don't like writing fiction, or more properly
haven't yet gotten to a point where I'm comfortable writing fiction in
the first person. I think that the second half of the next novel project
will be in first person, perhaps the whole thing, but I'm not sure at
this point. I think distance and a level of experience with third person
can give the proper amount of skill and ability to successfully pull off
a story in first person.

On the other side of the coin, writing non-fiction in first person can
have a very nice effect that can make some essays personal and hard
hitting, but it can also make an otherwise effective piece of prose
completely pointless. Because I'm writing so much stuff for school, and
because I tend to err on the side of perfection and cautiousness, it's
become hard for me to write in first person, morso in non-fiction than
in fiction, but it's a problem in both.

Also my normal mode for non fiction is this pedagogical air about
writing that I haven't been able to shake. Maybe it's Robert's fault for
roping me into that column three years ago, but it probably runs deeper.
I really don't mean to try and teach and correct everything but it seems
that that's just what comes out.

I'm stopping now while I'm ahead. Or something.

