============================================
The Master\xC3\xADs Tools and The Third Wave
============================================

.. post:: 2004-11-02
   :author: tychoish

After finishing the first Mars book, that I spoke about yesterday, I've
ritually (twice makes a ritual) returned to my habit of coming to the
basement of the library and sitting in front of the window until the
battery on my iPod dies, whilst doing some of the reading for this week.
This entry represents my study break. I'm almost sad that I finished Red
Mars, which means I get to tear through two feminist volumes. Today
(thus far) is this rather awesome collection of third wave essays for my
feminisms class; I have another two thirds to go, and plenty of time to
get it done. Then the second wave book, which is shorter, and for
Sociology Class; thanks to modernism, it'll inevitably easier to
understand and absorb.

I have a sneaking suspicion that the course guide will be out very soon.
I'm keeping my fingers crossed, so I hope that it'll all work out right;
though I have a triage plans if things don't work out well.

Anyway, the topic at handâ€¦

In 1979 Andre Lorde wrote an essay called "The Master's Tools Will Not
Dismantle the Master's House." Basically she says that if you want to
affect change , you can't work within the system. The tools of
oppression cannot be reversed in order to create positive change. I
don't know, the title embodies the entire concept for me: feminists must
approach the struggle for justice using fresh and unique approaches and
methods to deconstruct patriarchy (and reconstruct social
reality/theory). Lorde's more specific point was one of solidarity (as I
remember). That one could not advocate for female liberation without
arguing for gay and lesbian liberation; that one could not argue for
racial equality without arguing for class equality, and that racial and
class equality is very much a part of female liberation and feminism.
I'd also add that transgender rights are integral in this struggle.

I would argue that we need, from the beginning, to integrate and resolve
the contradictions between coalition/solidarity work and affinity work.
But balance of disparate but necessarily interrelated struggles is often
lost between the cracks, so I'll forgive it in this case.

Half of the post subject addressed, here's the meat of the issue.

One of the big issues of the third wave is the transnationalization of
feminism. And everyone goes a long with this and keeps saying "what we
need to work on is accepting all different kinds of feminisms and
feminists. That feminism isn't about abortion, equal rights, economic
freedom, and political parity, but it's about female empowerment in
whatever issues are important to the individual feminist.

Ok, I can buy that. My issues aren't your issues, and your issues aren't
mine; but because we're both working for the same thing, we should
support each other and collaborate when our issues overlap. It works,
again it's more affinity-esque and less coalition (but then I think
affinity works better on a smaller scale, and the coalition works better
for the large scale, but that's me. My feminism isn't your feminism; so
maybe our struggle isn't one.) This will take some time to make sure it
jives, because it doesn't fit completely, but I don't think that's the
issue at the moment.

The form that this decentralized transnational feminism takes most often
is the proliferation of non-governmental organizations providing
services to the third world. The movement of money across borders as
part of a global economy.

I don't know about you, but this seems a lot like the master's tools. In
this context NGOs are empowering women yes, but mainly in terms of a
western definition of power, which brings them into the global economy.
What next? Bam! Right back where we started, because the cottage
industry is just a new kind of dependence.

I think we need to find something a lot better before we dive head first
into it.

--------------

There, one down. Next time (perhaps later tonight), as everyone is
talking about the election that doesn't matter, I might just write
something up about independent media and TealArt, as some of the other
essays sort of relate to this subject that I've been pondering forever
it seems. Anyway, cheers!

