===========
Words Worth
===========

.. post:: 2009-04-28
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing, economics

Sorry for the puny title. I was thinking about the value of writing, and
of "literature," in our world. Lets call it another post in my sporadic
ongoing series of `amateur
theoretical <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/materialist-sf/>`__ `economics
posts <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/is-there-any-there-there/>`__. Or
something.

The overriding theme of this series has centered on thinking about ways
to build business models in a way that represents an **authentic** (and
sustainable) concept of the generation of wealth. Basically, to
recognize that wealth is created through the exchange of goods and
services which themselves have physical costs, rather than through the
exchange of money. Business models which are primarily profitable
because they're designed to cause money to pass through someones hands
(who can charge interest on it,) seem flawed from beginning to end.
Business models that seem to increase wealth without creating something
or doing something in the world, seem fraught with problems.

So then, writing.

Writing is, I thing (inspite/because of my obvious bias) something
valuable, and something that has worth, but I don't think the source of
its worth is particularly clear. A lot of literary types are convinced
of writing's power to effect change in the world. Aside from rhetoric
(essays, etc.), fiction is a powerful vehicle for cultural critique, and
for stimulating thought and wonder in any of a number of areas. Writing
provides groups of people with shared experience ("Did you read that
book? What did you think?") and which is certainly socially productive.

But that's not business, or at least that doesn't suggest some sort of
sustainable business model. Long term social value doesn't translate
into a publishing industry that can sustainably fund the efforts/lives
of writers. In a larger frame of reference, we should be able to fund
and support the lives and efforts of artists without much trouble. In a
sustainable way.

I've been thinking about trying to tie some sort of notion of
sustainability into this evolving economic theory. In one respect
economies which value worth, are necessarily sustainable. On the other
hand, I totally recognize the logical inconsistencies with saying "art
has abstract worth, so we should value it; investment banking has
abstract worth, so we should abandon it."

Also in this nexus of ideas, I've been playing with another concept (in
a story, of course) regarding how much (and what kind) of work is
required to keep a society fed/clothed/healthy decreases with regards to
effort and time. Technology is a powerful thing, and it means, fewer
people have to farm (per acre) to grow enough food to feed everyone,
better/more efficient refrigeration means less food gets wasted. Better
shipping technology means we can centralize tasks. All this filters into
"less energy spent on survival" and thus more energy spent on more...
abstract... endeavors. Supporting writers, hell supporting everyone, is
an increasingly logistical problem.

I'm not sure that this translates, very well, into some understanding of
busiess models for folks who do work in more "abstract" markets. I do
know, (and have talked at some length here) several things about the
business model for writers today: It turns out that bloggers are most
successful (it seems) when their "blog" functions as advertising for
"actual" work in some other arenas. That's not a bad thing, and really I
think "real writers" have a similar gig. From everything I can gather,
"Authors" make money from speaking engagements, book signings, academic
contracts, and the like. Just as a blog serves to create a market; a
book contract serves to create authority. The business model works for a
certain class of writing people, but I don't know how generalizable or
future looking this might be.

And maybe that's part of the worth of fiction, of writing in general,
and of my work in general: if we have *any* chance to explore these
sorts of ideas, theories, and potentials, it's going to be with the help
of researchers who write about their findings, essayists who synthesize
information in novel ways, and the fiction/literary writers who explore
the implications and possibilities.

Onward and Upward!

