=================
The Latest Angles
=================

.. post:: 2004-08-12
   :author: tychoish

As part of my heavily structured plan to avoid productive tasks, and my
writing, I've been watching the HBO Angels in America that a friend
finally gave me on videotape. Which reminds me that I saw a real live
production of the play a few months ago, and I don't think I ever
properly wrote about that here, so I'm going to talk a bit about both of
them.

I've only seen the HBO edition of the first part, as was the play only
the first one. I've read both of them, but as of today, only seen
productions of the first one.

In the live production, Louis (the Jewish boyfriend who leaves his lover
whose (slowly) dying of AIDS) was amazing. I had a hard time being
ambivalent about the character (as I suspect you're supposed to), Prior
(the (slowly) dying boyfriend), wasn't quite as good, but he was good,
and most of the other characters ranged from so-so, to horrible.

I didn't like the HBO Louis very much, but the Prior is way better.
Which I think is a good thing, ultimately. I liked Joe, the (closeted)
gay Mormon, whose married to a valium addict more than I perhaps should
have (probably because he was cute,) and Mary Louise Parker did a
wonderful job as Harper (his wife).

I suppose the thing I disliked most about the HBO version, is that they
cut my favorite scene, where Joe's mother, and her real-estate agent are
looking out over Salt-Lake City, talking about saint's, moving on, and
other stuff. They're smoking (the Mormon mother, included, which is a
bit funny,) and in response to discussion of the church of later day
saints, the mother says something like "(laterday saints) are the only
kind of saint's that are left." Which struck a chord with me, for some
strange unknown reason.

So I'll watch the second half tomorrow, and maybe I'll write another
report of it. Or not. My memory from reading the play, is that the
second one tries to hard to explain things, and answer questions.

As we've all learned from the last entry, answers and I don't seem to
get along very much. It's all about the questions.

