=====================
The Death of Blogging
=====================

.. post:: 2011-06-17
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: new-media

I think blogging died when two things happened:

1. A blog became a required component in constructing a digital
identity, which happened around the time that largely-static personal
websites started to disappear. Blogs always dealt in the construction
of identities, but until 2004, or so, they were just one tool among
many.

2. Having a blog became the best, most efficient way for people to sell
things. Blogging became a tool for selling goods and services, often
on the basis of the reputation of the writer

As these shifts occurred, blogs stopped being things that individual
people had, and started being things that companies created to post
updates, do out reach, and "do marketing." At about the same time,
traditional media figured out, at least in part, what makes content work
online. The general public has become accustomed to reading content
online. The end result is that blogs are advertising and sales vectors,
and this makes them much less fun to read.

When blogging was just a thing people did, mostly because it let them
present and interact with a group of writers *better* than they could
otherwise, there was vitality: people were interested in reading other
people's blogs and comment threads. This vitality makes it more
interesting to write blogs than pretty much any kind of content. The
excitement of direct interaction with readers, the vitality of blogging
transcends genre, from technical writing and documentation to fiction to
news analysis and current events.

The vitality of blogging is what makes blogs so attractive to
traditional media and to corporations for marketing purposes, so maybe
you can't have the good without the bad.

Everyone blogs. And perhaps that's a bit of the problem: too much
content means that it's hard to have a two way conversation between
blogs and bloggers. Who has time to read all those words anyway?
Blogging is great in part because it's so democratic: anyone can publish
a blog. This isn't without a dark side: we run the risk of blogging
without audience, or without significant interaction with the audience,
as a result of the volume of content which threatens the impact of that
democracy. But it makes sense, New forms and media don't solve the
problem cultural participation and engagement, they just shift the focus
a little bit.

