==========
The Siege 
==========

.. post:: 2008-11-11
   :author: tychoish

So I said I would, in honor of
`NaNoWriMo <http://www.nanowrimo.org/>`__, `write about writing on
tychoish <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/novel-writing-in-november/>`__ a
bit during the month of November. So here I am. I thought for the first
in this occasional series, I'd touch on the project that I'm currently
working on.

I'm working on a long novel/novella that fits loosely into my interest
series of "historiographical science fiction" stories that I've been
working on for a while now. It's a totally new world, and deals with a
couple of different groups of characters active in the
same--singular--moment of time, but who all have a very different
historical perspective and lineage.

Some of the characters live on a human populated outpost dozens of light
years away from Earth (and have lived on this world for generations),
other characters have never left the Earth system, the main characters
belong to the space faring class, and have spent most of their adult
lives going between worlds (and due to relativity) which makes them
hundreds upon hundreds of years "older" than everyone else.

It also has elements of military SF and political drama, the story is
all about living on the cusp of great social change which I thinks is
pretty relevant. In all I'm pleased.

A lot of people say that ideas for novels are cheap and bountiful, and
that writing a novel isn't as much about having a good idea as it is
about having the stick-to-itness to finish writing a (pragmatically)
80-100 thousand word document. Indeed NaNoWriMo is founded on this kind
of idea. While I don't disagree that stubbornness is a much needed skill
in a novelist, nor do I disagree that ideas a bountiful, I'm not sure
that *good ideas* are a dime a dozen, nor do I think that flawed
conceptual work can be entirely compensated by a skilled execution (or
inversely that briliant conceptual work can hide less than perfect
execution). These are two factors which have a sliding and dynamic
relationship, and that's part of the reason why fiction writing is an
art and not a science.

So with that out of the way, allow me the indulgence of a little
introspection. My previous stories have been interest enough, and I'm
pretty sure that my execution has improved in the last six years,
**but** my largest regret as I go over my older stories is that there is
often some huge conceptual failure. The tensions are too simple. The
characters don't feel/read as being distinct enough. The plots are
simplistic and a bit improbable, and there's a point in a story where I
always seem to loose the forward drive--not in writing momentum, but in
the plot--where the characters are sort of looking at each other saying
"hrm, what next," and that's *bad*.

For this project, I took the position to focus on these conceptual
issues. Not because I'm satisfied with my technical ability at writing
fiction, but because that's something that I can a) fix later, and b)
will improve gradually with time, as long as I'm attentive to that
development.

The last time I planned out a novel, I concentrated on getting the "what
happens next and next and next" details of the plot worked out. I have a
stack of note cards in my desk drawer that outline all of the scenes
(settings, present characters, plot goals, etc.) and as I began to write
the story, I realized that I didn't have a clue who the characters were,
or any sort of deep understanding of the world outside of what the
characters were doing. That was a problem.

This time, I opened up a new page in my personal wiki and I just started
writing. Not the story, but stuff about the story, the major characters,
the big political groups and institutions that I'd be dealing with,
stuff about the technology as it related to the plot and the customs of
the worlds I knew I'd be dealing with. And after a few weeks and several
thousand words, I realized that I needed *more* not just more details so
that I could write a stronger outline, but more things going on, more
tension.

About this time I listened something Cory Doctoorw said in an interview
about how the key to dramatic tension was "making it more difficult for
the key characters to get what they wanted on every page, and as long as
that happens, you're doing your job." Which you can't do unless your
story is very short (which presents its own dramatic challenges), or you
have a lot going on in your story. Given the advances of digital
technology, we (or I) can sometimes lose track of the fact that even
though novels are long, their length needs to be worthwhile and
justified.

So I added stuff until it felt full, and I was excited to start. Not
just because new projects are exciting to start, but because *there was
so much going on*. And in the end? my notes directory has almost 7,000
words, which is about half what the story itself has these days.

Oh and you're wondering about the title? When I started the story I
thought it was going to begin *in medias res* with a warship in siege of
a colony world, and it would be about the Siege, hence the title of this
post, and the working title of "The Siege of Al-Edarian," but it doesn't
begin in the middle of that story, and there isn't really a Siege any
more. So I need a new title. There are worse things to be in need of,
though.

Onward and Upward!

