============================================
The Isle of the Fairly Mad (Part the Second)
============================================

.. post:: 2006-01-06
   :author: tychoish

So, having gotten everyone caught up on where my knitting has been this
semester, I think it's fair time to tell you my plans for the next
semester. Because that's the unit my life exists is semesters. Not days,
not months, not years: semesters. So be it.

One of the (many) things I could do next semester is a special project
as an art class for knitting. Basically I'd keep notes for my knitting,
which is something I currently do, I'd journal, which is basically
ta:ks(s?) entries, and I would be making a few sweaters. Two. Possibly
just a vest and something with sleeves. I'm going to write an email to
the instructor, and see what kind of credit I could get for that.
*shrug*

Anyway, the following is the foundation for that email.

Right now I'm in the progress of putting sleeves on my version of Alice
Starmore's Norway Sweater (from *Fisherman's Sweaters*). I will very
likely finish that one up by the middle of next week.

Then, I have a blue and white vest. My mom got this pattern, and the
yarn to go with it. She even started on that sweater, except, that, well
she doesn't like to do big color work projects, which means I have the
yarn for a vest with my name on it. Cool.

So here's the plan for the Vest. I'm not a big fan of that pattern. I
think it looks little too rug like, and single color ribbing next to
color work I think is a bad idea (flexibility issues, and it's just a
bit... meh) So I'll do some corrugated ribbing at the bottom, arm holes
and collar. Stay tuned for my post next friday, about how much I hate
corrugated ribbing. I've also lifted a pattern from the palm of an
Estonian Mitten from Nancy Bush's *Folk Knitting in Estonia*\ , which
I'll use for the sweater. It's actually the same size as the pattern I
rejected from the original sweater. So some of the pattern can be used
for some of the shaping (vest armsyes, and vee-necks).

Then I have pyarn already for a sweater, using a sport/fingering yarn.
Louet Sales, Gem's. It's about the same weight as Koigu KPPM, in fact
they, both used to use the same mill until there was a falling out. I
think Koigu switched. Whatever, it's nice stuff, and I'll make some sort
of sweater, I'm liking the vertical pattern panels, but we'll see what
mood strikes me when I get there.

Those are the concrete projects, as I already have the yarn for them.

I thought that I would want to progress in to multi color, true "Fair
Isle" style pullovers at this point, but alas the urge hasn't struck me.
the *Norge Fantasia* sweater I talked about in the last entry really
drove me off horizontal pattern paneling. I think true Fair Isle is
still really cool and it's not something that I'd like to give up
completely, but it's not something I think would be wise to buy yarn for
at this point. Other things which might find there way into the cue (no
order) are:

- The Great Sweater Trade: More news on this coming soon, but I'm going to
  make a color work sweater for my mother in exchange for a cabled one.

- A Color-work Cardigan for Sam: Mom wants a cardigan, and seeing that
  I'm still antsy, a little bit, about cardigans, especially
  color-work ones, I'd like to make one for myself for practice. you
  know, with the hems and what not. And I'd like a cardigan/jacket for
  myself. I'm thinking it'll probably be out of Cascade 220, as I live
  in the frigid north, and I like Cascade, and it's about as bulky as
  I'd ever want my color work to get.

- A Pullover in Alpaca: I'm a huge fan of alpaca yarn and, the owner
  of my favorite yarn store is talking about making an order from
  Henry's Attic, and i've thought about getting in on that, because
  its amazing yarn, and the perfect weight for a sweater, and would be
  really fun to knit with.

- A lightweight sweater for Sam: Given the nature of color work, and
  the fact that I swear I haven't used anything smaller than size
  fives since may, most of my work has been somewhat thick, and I'd
  like to make a lighter sweater, because I don't really have any good
  fall/spring sweaters. I have my eyes on some merino lace weight,
  which would probably be pure insanity, but I'm up for it. I'm
  keeping my eyes on what this maker has, and when the right thing
  comes along I'm all over it, otherwise I'm thinking about 2/8
  shetland, or something of that sort.

- Binary Patterning: I've always been intrigued by the prospect of
  using binary code for a sweater. I'm big on text, but the thing that
  makes color work so gripping is the way that the patterns build and
  the rhythm that that creates, and binary looses that, in all the
  ways I've thought of using it, so it needs a little thought before
  it's ready for prime time.

There you have it. Stay tuned for developments on all these projects.

Cheers, sam
