==================
The Odd Cyborg Out
==================

.. post:: 2009-10-15
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, lisp

I said to my office mate this week, "I'm switching to
`zsh <http://www.zsh.org/>`__," and I believe he said something to the
effect of "oh dear, what's next."

I should back up. I'm something of an odd duck when it comes to the way
I use computers. I'm a geek, even in the context of my coworkers who are
(also) huge geeks. I'm the only one who uses emacs. We're an OS X shop
(for the desktop, at least) but I run Arch Linux inside of a virtual
machine. Because I'm like that. And now, I'm switching away from the
by-now unix standard "bash" shell to "zsh." I'm a bit weird. I'm ok with
this.

So zsh. Why should you care? Well...

I'm not expert, having only really used it for a few days but there are
a few things that have won me over:

- It's mostly backwards compatible with bash. So, except for the stuff
  that configured my prompt, I was able to copy over my old
  ``.bashrc`` file pretty much as is. There's been no real "brain
  adjustment" from all my old bash habits.

- It's faster. You know, this is the kind of thing taht you don't
  believe, "my terminal is faster than your terminal" is kinda lame
  because bash is pretty peppy compared to GUI stuff. I mean what,
  bash is a 300-400 *kb*, how slow can it be? The answer is, zsh just
  feels faster. This seems to be a quasi universal experience.

- It does tab-completion within commands. This is seriously amazing,
  because while command completion and path completion is awesome in
  bash, you still have to remember all of the sub-commands. This is
  particularly rough for big commands like "``git``\ " and
  "``apt-get``\ " or "``apt-cache``\ ". Very awesome.

Getting up the courage to switch and to rewrite my prompt was something
that took a little bit of doing, but now I'm happy, and I strongly
recommend it. If you like me live in the terminal, or have thought about
using the command line more, give zsh a try, it's good stuff.

--------------

The other thing, almost certain to provoke an "Oh dear" reaction on the
part of my geeky friends is the fact that I'm strongly considering
switching from the `Awesome Window
Manager <http://awesome.naquadah.org>`__ to the `Stump Window
Manager <http://www.nongnu.org/stumpwm/>`__, or more practically StumpWM
or just Stump. Here's some background on my adventures with tiling
window managers:

When I started using Awesome every *thing* I did with the computer lived
in it's own little window. I was coming from the mac, so I lived with
ten or fifteen open TextMate windows, a like number of open tabs in my
terminal emulator, and a browser with a gazillion open tabs. I thought
that this was sort of "the way I worked," and so I replicated this kind
of workflow in Awesome.

And here's the thing. Awesome is great for managing a *huge* number of
windows. With 9 workspaces/tags (or more!) it was possible to keep
twenty or thirty windows afloat... a few browsers, a few chat windows, a
dozen terminals, a few emacs frames, and the like all happening at once.
And the window manager made it possible for me to only have to look at 2
or three windows at a time.

Then I progressed. With emacs' server/daemon mode, I only have one
instance of emacs and 20 or so buffers, and in an extreme moment I
sometimes have as many as 4 frames open at once, but more often I just
have 2 or three (org-mode, writing, and a spare for something.) And
terminals? I've taken to using screen which multiplexes an untabbed
terminal, so I typically have a single screen session with 8
screen-windows, and I keep a couple of instances of that open at once
for different contexts, so lets say another three windows. I have a
remote screen session for IM and chat now that I connect to, and a
single web browser.

Frankly, it's sort of gotten to the point where I don't really need to
manage very many windows, and I probably never use more than 4-5
tags/workspaces. **My needs for a window manager changed,** and one of
the core problems that problem that Awesome solves, is one that I've
solved by using multiplexed applications. And that leads me to Stump.

I see that I probably need to spend a little more time talking about
this tiling window manager stuff again. Stay tuned!
