=============================
The Problem with Anti-Oedipus
=============================

.. post:: 2007-07-06
   :author: tychoish

This posting is nominally in respoonse to section 3.3 of Deleuze and
Guatteri's *Anti-Oedipus*, but I think, given that this section doesn't
cover particularly new territory, and the fact that I think I need to
take a step back and talk about my perspectives and reasons for
approaching this book. So there won't be quotes this week.

But first, for my records as much as anything, 3.3 entitled "The Problem
with Oedipus," and it basically takes a bit of traditional
psychonalaitic canon (ish), and explains more or less on it's own terms,
how it doesn't hold together. Oedipus doesn't work, because kinship
relationships are social constructions; Oedipus doesn't work because
heterosexuality doesn't work (for anyone,) Oedipus doesn't work....
We've been over parts of this argument before, and while it's a
compleatly necessary part of the book. I'm in favor of taking it and
moving on to greener pastures.

Next week's section (3.4) is entitled "Psychoanalysis and Ethnology,"
which sounds greener to me.

Anyway, back to why I like the book, why I think it's important to read
a 30 (!) year old book of, what was surely in its day, trendy
philosophy.

- I think it's difficult to say "reality is socially constructed,"
  without having a framework. Judith Butler is a good start (did'ya
  know that she opens her oft-reprinted essay "Imitation and Gender
  Insubordination" with a Delueze quote?) but I think it's important
  to go further. And though it all started with queer theory for me,
  the truth is that those arguments aren't tactically a good place to
  start for the kinds of questions and arguments I'm interested in
  building on.

- I enjoy the possibility and opportunity to look at psychoanalysis
  and say "rubbish!" outside of empiricism, and still say "you know
  these ideas are still useful." It's not apologizing for Freud, I
  mean I think even when you extract the 19th century from Freud, it's
  not all that good; but it creates the possibility for me (and others
  I hope) to say "look what people working in a psychoanalytical
  framework have done" and it's pretty nifty. Think about attachment
  theory, think about Levi-Struss and structuralism, and one can't
  help but admit that "interpolation" (Althusar) is pretty nifty. I'm
  still throwing out ideas by the bale , but at some point that just
  has to happen, I suppose.

- It's a book about psychoanalysis that is unabashedly materialist,
  and that's an incredibly helpful position to have a grasp of.

- It's funny. I tried reading Derrida about a year ago. Dear g-d. I
  think Derrida gets taken a little more seriously than Deleuze and
  Guatteri, but it's harder to read, and I think less broadly
  applicable.

And then the background. Now lets remember, I'm no specialist in this
stuff, so what I've been able to piece together is just that: a
mishmash.

- *AO* is a synthetic project. Like a lot of so called radical
  philosophy (usually french, usually from the late 60s and 70s), it's
  a melding of Freud and Marx. I've heard also (and agree) that it
  uses Nietzsche synthesizes Freud and Marx.

- Deleuze and Guatteri are, at least as I read them,
  post-structuralists, which is basically an epistemological position.
  That to understand our culture/society, one need to under stand the
  underlying systems and "structures" [1]_. Structuralists assume that
  structures are basically transcendent/ahistorical/etc.
  Post-structuralists, say no, that they're
  contextually/historically/culturally constructed.

- I've often thought, though I don't have a lot of textual evidence to
  back this up on (but hey, blog) that post-structualism pivots on
  linguistics/semiotics, in the tradition of `Saussure
  <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ferdinand_de_Saussure>`__.  That is:
  the break the bonds between words (signs) and the idea what they
  represent (signifiers) and refer to, ripples out to affect other
  representations and knowing(s).

That's rough, of course. I guess this is the notebook edition of the
Delueze theory, but I hope that exposing my thinking is useful for you
all.

Have a good weekend and think good thoughts.

cheers, tycho

.. [1] Structures are systems beyond just models, for instance
   Levi-Struss' seminal (ha!) work is on kinship, for instance.
