========================================
The Mighty Blogosphere and other Stories
========================================

.. post:: 2004-05-14
   :author: tychoish

I was listening to a radio show a few nights ago, as I was driving home
*The Connection with Dick Gordon*, I'd link to it for you, except I
don't feel like googling it to find it. Just think of it like NPR's Talk
of the Nation, or the Diane Rehm Show. Same expert and call in format,
and it works. I'd listen to music, if the tape player worked or I had a
CD player, but NPR is ok, it keeps me awake and thinking. Actually, of
those three shows, The Connection is really the best. "This American
Life" is my favorite NPR show, even though I never listen to it. How gay
is that? Anyway, back to the point.

Right. So they were talking about the impact of blogs on journalism, and
how the "blogoshpere" works kind of like a single unity. If gender and
psych weren't so interesting, I'd probably want to study social
psychology in cyber-culture. Sigh. Why can't you do everything?

Anyway, it was really interesting and the guy Dick had on was really
good. Even though he was critical of bloggers, I really liked him.
Though the kind of bloggers he was talking about almost seem to have a
community more like a message board, but they get some kind of added
validity because they "publish" their own work, so it's not just a
message board. Except that you have to think of it like a message board.

So I guess I'm not really a bloggers, I mean, I work in a community with
other bloggers, and I've been at it for a long time, but I only
occasionally comment on current events. If I wanted to read the news,
I'd look at the news. I read blogs to *know people,* even if it's a blog
that's about tech stuff or knitting you start to learn something
essential about a person. And that's really cool.

Having said that, I come from a different generation of blogging. I
remember when moveable type was just a bunch of hype and all the cool
people used Greymatter. When the only PHP mySQL options were PHP-Nuke,
which wasn't (and as far as I know still isn't) not set up for the kind
of one or two person writing teams that I was always interested in.
Before Noah moved to California. Hell, I even remember Noah's first (I
think) post-MSSAF site.

I remember when Greylogs was the place to be, I remember when PixelPile
started. Back then I thought that I was totally the new kid on the
block, and in many ways I'm still an outsider, but I've seen a lot.

I started work on the original Collective Arts more than four years ago,
(about March). I come from a different age of bloggers I feel some
times. If I started CA four years ago, it means Chris and I have known
each other for five years. There are really only two people I go to
school with who I've known longer and still see and talk to regularly,
and a couple that I've known, but don't really talk to. But I digress.

--------------

This brings me to the other big accomplishment that's looming large in
my future. I turn eighteen in six days. I don't have an Amazon wish
list, and I'm not going to link to one even if I did. How's that for
bucking from tradition.

Eighteen. I just thought I'd mention it because it's not really real for
me yet. I've been so busy. I'm even telling my family and friends to
postpone my birthday until the 24th. I'm in a play, and I have a crap
load of things to do from my birthday until the 24th.

Anyway, as I was writing this entry I realized that, again, I kind of
keep forgetting it. I need to work on that. Back to the entry about
metablogging.

--------------

So having said that I'm playing with two schools of blogging
methodology, if you will. The quick, easy painless method, which
blogspot, Type Pad, Live Journal, etc. and hordes of other services now
offered. Then there is my own somewhat rambling style, borne partially
out of the old school blogs I know and love, and partially out of my own
twisted mind. If I'm interested in a subject I can really write forever
about it. This entry is now at 720 words. It's the third similarly
lengthed entry I've written today. Last weakened, on a whim in a couple
of slow hours I wrote 4,500 words about how to manipulate knitting
patterns, and associated mathematical conversions. Anyway I digress.

And I don't proof read. In part because my computer would be full of
posts that I wrote like this one and then proof read and decide that I
didn't like any more. I've done that a lot.

The other thing that I've learned from doing this play, about my writing
style, is that I can write colloquially, in a manner similar to the way
I talk, and but if I proof read it, I can make anything sound like a
history lesson. I get to essayish. Which given that I'm a student and
that most of my writing energies are spent writing essays, this is
probably an asset. Except that the key to writing an essay isn't
sounding like your writing an essay, it's being lively, which most
essayists forget, but again I digress.

I'm feeling pretty ADD tonight, can't you tell. Really ADD.

So in case all of you were wondering these are things I'm currently
working on in my TealArt writing. This is the point I was setting out to
write 950 words ago. *deep breath* Chris and I have talked about the
tone of TealArt a lot, and we seem to have some problems just opening up
and talking about stuff, (the day, what's on my mind, etc.) kind of like
I've tried to do with this post. The feeling just isn't right. Part of
us wants to adapt to modern trends in the blogoshpere (isn't that just a
horrible word), and part of us wants to stick to our guns.

Also the fact that we have this bad habit of posting a spurt of message
once or twice a month, tends to kind of crimp our the flexibility of the
tone. So how to fix this. Unlike my recent bout with Post-modern Stress
syndrome. There is quite clearly a possible solution. I'm going to
believe that the "just do it, damnit" will work in this case. That is,
that if I want the tone and mood to shift so that TealArt relaxes and
starts covering a greater variety of subjects, I should just hunker down
and start writing more for this.

While I'm at it, it might be interesting to apply this philosophy to a
postmodern discourse.

