======================
These Times of TealArt
======================

.. post:: 2007-06-11
   :author: tychoish

I was once again out of town this weekend. Chances are, that as you're
reading this, I'm still driving back from southern Minnesota thanks to
the wonders of modern technology. Aren't you envious?

This last week has been tough, by all accounts tougher than it should
have been, but I had some accomplishments of note. I finished a sweater
that I've been working on for some time, and was asked to teach a class
at a local knitting store. That was pretty nifty. I did some serious
job-searching, with mixed results so far. I also made some incremental
progress on big projects (academic-y ones,) which was very needed, but
not particularly satisfying.

I haven't done much writing this week. Never fear, there's still going
to be TealArt entries, but I've been discouraged. Readership isn't
picking up, we're not getting feedback and everything feels a little
hopeless at the moment. While I know that the "trailer" station keeping
episode wasn't the most gripping piece of writing and that if it's going
to take off, we'll probably need a few "real" episodes under our belts,
I have a nagging voice that says "if it's not good, it's probably
because no one likes it." I don't think this is the case, in part
because I'm not keeping track of stats on the "`station keeping
site <http://tychoish.com/hanm/>`__ (and don't know of a good way to do
so)," and also--perhaps on a down note--I don't think there are enough
people reading it to say, fairly "nobody likes it." Nevertheless,
something has to give, sooner or later something will break--I/we'll
learn something, someone will "discover us," or I'll discover an
unsaturated promotional market... It could happen.

Having said that, there'll be new *Station Keeping* tomorrow, this one
introduces a couple of key characters, and *gasp* has dialogue. I think
you'll enjoy. Also, this week's Deleuze entry is great, they're a great
deal of fun to write, and I feel, more than the other things that I've
written about here recently, they really "fit." So maybe I'll start
writing emails to other deleuze bloggers and see what they say; and
hopefully my semi-undefensable anti-lacanian stance won't get in the way
too much.

I'd love to hear from you all...

best, tycho

