================================
The Things I'm Going To Do Today
================================

.. post:: 2010-03-01
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, organization

Ok, so not really.

This post is mostly about playing a head game with yourself, in an
effort to get more organized. But not "head games" in a bad way. On *my*
to do list for the past few weeks I've had something like "write a blog
post about todo list item titles," because in light of `this
post <http://tychoish.com/posts/beyond-lists-in-org-mode/>`__ about
`org-mode <http://orgmode.org/>`__ it seems like a topic in need of
further definition. Basically my goal is to explore, **the best way to
think about what we have to do, to allow us to accomplish what we want
to.** The GTD system which so many people are enamored of present a few
ideas on the topic, and while the GTD way is a good place to start
thinking, it's not a good place to *stop* thinking.

--------------

We've all done it. Made a todo list that we didn't end up using for one
reason or another. Todo lists, need to be useful: they should help us
organize our day, and help us keep track of all the things wee need to
accomplish. In a lot of ways, maintaining focus over our day and all of
the tasks that nag at us are contradictory, so todo lists are failed by
design.

The first, and frequent issue in my own organization are lists and plans
that go too far and list too many "actionable items." This divides your
time and actions into too many little pieces, leading to a number of
outcomes. The first risk is that you might start to ignore the list
entirely because it's too long and complicated, even if it's an illusion
caused by the size of the items on your list. Ergo, the total length of
the list you "work off of," needs to be manageable and comprehensible.

The second risk, is that, an overactive todo list is one where you over
plan for yourself, such that your list--while accurate and
comprehensible--isn't *useful*. Beyond simply providing "outboard
memory," the best todo lists allow us to structure and make plans for
our working time. When working (e.g. writing, at the computer, etc.), I
like to have my projects chopped up into pieces that can conceivably get
done in the time I have to work on them, but that give me the time and
freedom to bury myself on a side project, or follow inspiration or a
train of thought to its completion when needed. While effective todo
lists help you structure your time, flexibility is still valuable.

There are issues on the other end of the spectrum as well: when lists
are too short, and the "actionable items" on a list are too conceptually
large, the effectiveness of lists is degraded as well. A reminder to
"write a novel," even a specific novel, is less than helpful for helping
you accomplish something in the moment. Even a dozen items, on a list
where you end up checking something off once every day or two doesn't
help you figure out "Ok, what do I need to work on now." Besides the
chances are, if the items are too large and the list is too small, that
you probably have it memorized anyway.

Right? Other strategies?

