==================================
This TealArt Week (is almost over)
==================================

.. post:: 2007-07-10
   :author: tychoish

Its actually almost interesting how tired and behind I've been. Knitting
camp, as I'm sure you've read (here, here, and here), was amazing, and I
quite enjoyed the experience. If nothing else it did a lot to inspire
me, for future knitting. I'm not sure if there was anything specific I
can point to that I learned that I didn't know before, but I have new
ideas for patterns, new shapes and techniques and styles that I want to
try out and use, and I think on the whole this is a good thing. I also
feel better and more encouraged to start designing and writing again. So
we'll see what comes of this.

But the downside of this, is that I slept between 3 and 5 hours for the
past several days, and despite sleeping a lot last night, I'm only now
beginining to recover properly. I spent an entire day at work being
groggy and tired. At one point, while we were fiddling with a database,
I leaned over and rubbed my forehead on the corner of a library cart
rather than move my arm to scratch it. Yeah it was ugly.

While clearly not sufficient as an excuse, I have none-the-less fallen
behind in my TealArt-ing (and my tychoish-ing). I do, thankfully, have a
station keeping that will appear tomorrow morning (later this morning,
likely, by your reading of this). There may or may not be a post on
thursday, and I hope to have something about Delueze for friday, but it
might not be much. With luck, I will recover by next week.

As you might expect I'm trying to get some knitting done, but hopefully
I'll convince myself to chill out a little. I'm starting to get that "oh
my g-d, I haven't been writing" itch, so I need to point some time in
that direction, but having said that there's a grey Tam that I want to
knit, in part to revise my `astoundingly popular beret
pattern <http://tychoish.com/posts/killer-simple-beret-pattern-from-the-free-knitting-pattern-series/>`__.
The astounding part is the fact that it's popular (4th return for "free
beret pattern" on google, and routinely gets the most number of hits of
any TealArt page), given, I think, that the numbers don't come out even.
Unless you cast on a multiple of 4. Also I need a new beret, all of mine
seem to have wondered off...

Anyway, I'll be in touch, and sorry about the irregularity of my
postings, and keep an eye on `tychoish <http://tychoish.com>`__.

Cheers! tycho

