==========================
Thoughts on Tenure Systems
==========================

.. post:: 2007-09-12
   :author: tychoish

I was thinking about Olin College for some reason, which launched me
into something of a `rathole <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ratholing>`__
about tenure and academia.

.. raw:: html

<div style="text-align:center;">

.. raw:: html

</div>

I have a buddy at Olin College, and I've heard some people rave about
how awesome and hard-core revolutionary the program is. And I think it's
pretty nifty that in the late 20th and early 21st century, new
institutions of higher learning can start and (hopefully) succeed.
Having said that, as I am wont, I was curious about how tenure was dealt
with.

Olin College is distinctive in several ways. First, it does not
intend to establish traditional academic departments. Instead, the
internal academic structure will involve several multidisciplinary
clusters of faculty whose primary bond is the successful development
of a cohort of engineering students. In addition, faculty employment
relations will be based on renewable contracts rather than a
traditional tenure system.

Now we're talking about a faculty that I suspect (this is a guess) is
*maybe* 40 people, and maybe growing a little. Also tangentially,
"academic departments" are almost always about institutional
administration. Now in a small setting you don't could probably cut out
that mid-level administrator, and just have the dean and a couple of
people in that office take care of those kinds of things, but I'm not
sure that really cuts much out, but whatever.

I have to say that I've had better experiences at institution where
tenure is stronger, and the cries of, "but it isn't economically
viable!" is distracting, and I have yet to be convinced. I'm also
convinced that when faculty are more fulfilled and supported, students
learn more (and better). Part of keeping faculty supported is tenure,
not to mention, living wages and health insurance. But there's a
difference between adjuncts that teach 5 intro-level classes a term and
tenure/tenure-track professors that teach about three classes a term (or
less), and have the opportunity to do research, and be active
professionally.

I remain convinced that Tenure remains useful, even in the contemporary
world. I can think of no other renewable contract-faculty type system
that might successfully encourage research. You can't have meaningful
research/publication systems without it. Tenure allows for the ebb and
flow that's typical of the general career, it grants freedom, and sets
expectations that research be incorporated into faculty life. Renewable
contract systems focus on teaching, because that's easy to talk and
think about.

Unfortunately, or fortunately, as long as tenure continues to exist,
those jobs will be preferable to non-tenure jobs to many people, and
thus continue to attract better faculty. At the very least, I think
tenured faculties will be more acceptable. To make an analogy, new
science fiction magazines that pay writers, "pro rates," tend to sell
better, than ones that pay less than the 3 cents per word mark, because
readers know that they're able to buy better stories from authors, and
are able to perceive that difference.

The idealistic (and flagrantly incorrect) free-market argument should
suggest that non-tenured full time jobs should pay *more* than tenured
jobs (trading the security of tenure, for an increase in salary) and
frankly if that were the case, it might not seem like quite as bad of a
deal, but not only do non-tenure jobs, tragically misunderstand the role
and purpose of faculty, but they put faculty in a pretty precarious
situation, it seems to me, and that's not good.

