=================================================
Thoughts on the Table of Contents of Anti-Oedipus
=================================================

.. post:: 2007-07-13
   :author: tychoish

Ok friends, so given my general lack of acomplishment this week, I don't
really have a proper Delueze essay for you this week. I browsed the
first several pages of the chapter I had planed to read this week, and
it didn't really work for me. The third major division (part?) of the
book is titled "Savages, Barbarians, and Civilized Men" and basically
covers the formation of Oedipal [1]_ structures on the social/cultural
level. While this is important, this part of the text is hard to get
through, of decreasing utility, and oblique.

I have to say that this is probably *exactly* the kind of project that
psychoanalytical terms and frameworks are ill suited to. We can talk
about normative ideas, and cultural organization really well without
imposing the tangentially useful Analytic crap. There's plenty of room
and need for it, but right here, I really can't imagine ever coming back
to it. I keep stalling out on this section of the book, I think this
should be a hint to me.

So this brought me back to the table of contents so that I can think of
how to proceed. I do want to keep reading Deleuze, but I need to find
something that works better. My first impulse is to go to DR (which is
what Jared of `SportiveThoughts <http://sportivethoughts.com/>`__
Recommends), but I have half a mind to just skip 4 sections in *AO* and
read 8. "The Urstaat," and 10. "Capitalist Representation," and then
move on to the final part, which is "Introduction to Schizoanalysis."

In an effort to give this post a little meaning, as a follow up to the
list of reason why I thought *AO* was important/worthwhile, I'd like to
present a list of possible applications/uses. Next week, I'll have
something more substantive.

- structural models (machines), are inherently incomplete and flawed.
  Deleuze and Guatteri's discussion of this concept, can be helpful in
  exploring and explaining social practices which we may be tempted to
  assume as being somehow *a priori,* like memory, or gender.

- I think I'm going to, at some point, use Deleuze and Guatteri's
  discussion of recording machines as part of a justification for
  studying memory. Same for the section that I quoted in `Culture,
  Memory and Lanague
  <http://tychoish.com/posts/deleuze-culture-memory-and-language/>`__.

- Once I find more of the nomadic subject/multipicity of
  subjectivity's stuff, I think that would be very helpful to my
  cause.

I think that's just the surface, but a start. Have a good weekend.

Cheers, tycho

.. [1] the missing piece that I haven't added in right now, is that
   this becomes much more useful if we read "normative" in the place
   of oedipus.
