=====
Tiles
=====

.. post:: 2007-12-18
   :author: tychoish

My offer to steek one of the armholes of the Morocco jacket on demand
while I'm at `the shop <http://www.knittycouture.com>`__ remains open.
If you're local, I'll be in the shop today, tomorrow and Thursday. Write
me if you have a preference about when you'd like me to do it.
Otherwise, I'm thinking Thursday evening.

In the mean time my Turkish Tile sweater, is is progressing with great
pleasure. It's such an engaging knit, and I've just hit what's usually
the black-hole period of the sweater, and I'm still entranced. It's now
about 8 inches long. I figure I'm not quite half way to the underarm,
because I have a lot (a *lot* of yarn, and I want a jacket/coat).

I know it's a ways off but I'm still debating about how to do the
sleeves/shoulders. Here's what I'm thinking about now:

1. Kangaroo pouch: set sleeves in to shoulder width at underarms, and
decrease the "half gusset" very fast on the sleeves. No sleeve cap
shaping
2. Kangaroo pouch modified: set in sleeves half way to shoulder width,
and decrease to shoulder width over the next 2 or so inches (this is
more traditional way of setting in sleeves). Decrease the half gusset
more slowly. Again, no cap shaping.
3. Do it as a yoke sweater Elizabeth Zimmerman style, likely with sleeve
caps/set in sleeves. This will require knitting the sleeves in the
direction I don't want to knit them (bottom up) and is much harder
judge for course corrections while it's in progress.

Thoughts?

In other knitting news: I've not started knitting a manly `Ice Queen
Knitty <http://www.knitty.com/ISSUEwinter07/PATTicequeen.html>`__ yet,
though I very much want to. I'm not really making socks or anything else
yet. I have been working tirelessly on the new TealArt Web site, mostly
so I have a platform for distributing knitting patterns and organizing
knitalongs.

Onward and Upward!

**Update** *on 18 December 2007 at 11:17am CST:* I just discovered that
I've knitted the last several rows of this sweater on US size 3 needles
rather than the typical 2.5. We're talking a diameter difference of .25
mm, and I can't yet tell if it's an observable difference or not. Grr.
Feel kind of dumb. I'll keep you posted on this.

