================================
The Times of Hanm Center TealArt
================================

.. post:: 2007-08-20
   :author: tychoish

It's here. It's finally here.

This week is going to be all station keeping, all the time, starting
this very afternoon. This of course means that we're going to be
"off-the-air" come next week. I've been prepping essays/posts about
science fiction, science fiction writing, and I expect to do some more
in the "Keeping Meta" series of posts, while we wait and write the next
season (and start thinking more long term about our story, for season
three.) I'm going to give a tentative target release date of November
first, but I might pull that date back a week or two so that we're not
having a big finale in the middle of the holidays. Planning... it's
weird.

I'd like to of course, thank Jo Goodman who's writing appears in two of
this week's installments. It's great to have such a fun (and different)
perspective contributing to this project, and although the stories were
just by me and Jo this season, I think it would be improper to go on
without at least publicly thanking all the other people who have
contributed to the development, planning, and thinking about the
project. There's something really great about serials, and something
about a group that makes it even more fun to write for, in my
estimation.

This isn't to say that the first season of *Station Keeping,* is without
flaw. Frankly I would have like to see more contributions from both the
crowd, and from our own core, and thats going to be one of my big hiatus
projects. For a long time, I would get cockamamie ideas for
internet-phenomena and projects, and they'd sort of fizzle out when,
inevitably, people wouldn't flock to them. Now I'll attribute this, at
least in part, to youthful naivet√©, but it's also true that
web-phenomena need a certain sort of momentum, and that's nothing you
can summon out of thin air.

And *Station Keeping* is getting there slowly, and that's all I can ask
for. I suppose the main difference between this project and former
projects is that I'm sticking to this one, because by god I think it can
work. And sometimes that stubbornness is totally a good thing.

As always, if you're interested in contributing to the Station Keeping
project, either on a one off or a continuing business, please contact
me, I'd love to work with you and include your stories in the project.
My email is tycho@tealart.com, I look forward to hearing from you. Some
authors are talking about `fan
fiction <http://www.locusmag.com/Features/2007/05/cory-doctorow-in-praise-of-fanfic.html>`__,
and `Matthew Wayne Selznick <http://www.mattselznick.com/>`__ has even
set up `a site for fan generated
content <http://www.donnerinstitute.org/>`__\  [1]_ to encourage such
projects for his own work. I would, however, submit that it would be
nearly impossible for you to write fan fiction for Station Keeping (well
there'd need to be fans, but...) mostly because I think that anyone who
wants to write fic, could probably write "real" station keeping, without
much fuss.

In any case, stay tuned to `~/tychoish <http://tychoish/>`__ for updates
about me and the site (also in the sidebar, here on TealArt,) and I'll
see you throughout the week for Station Keeping installments, but
otherwise, I'll see you next week.

Cheers, tycho

.. [1] I posted a bit about the Station Keeping project there, and
   would like to welcome anyone whose happened along this post and
   TealArt from there.
