===============
Todo List Bloat
===============

.. post:: 2009-03-13
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: emacs, cyborg, productivity

I'm working on a longer post on the topic, but the past few days have
seen me spend a bit of extra attention trying to develop some way of
doing a "fact file" inside of emacs. Basically what I need is some way
of storing information (links, quotes, text) along with bibliogrpahic
information (where I got it, when I accessed it) and some sort of
meta-data (tags, categories, search index) so that I can find things
again. Largely, this data isn't for any specific project, but it is a
way to record general notes on the information that I consume in an
effort to make that data more useable in the future.

As I firm up the solution, I'll write more about it, but I've discovered
something about the software targeted at this domain (generally,
"personal information management,") that's worth sharing: there are a
lot of notebooks and databases around, but they're all very much alike:
anything that's structured as a database is generally desgined to store
addresses, contact information and other "CRM" data, which is nice, but
not what I'm going for at all. There are also a lot of notebook
applications that are modeled on wikis (too unstructured) or outliners
(ok, but hierarchical). Interestingly, it seems every kind of personal
information management package that isn't an address book (for emacs,
but I think this is to some degree generalizable) has grown to a point
where it can manage and extrapolate todo-lists from your notes.

Once upon a time, emacs itself was critiqued (and still is) because it
has the ability to send and recieve email, and that this feature (email
sending) was a sign of "feature bloat," becasue after all, sending email
with a text editor. That's a bit a field. I'll let you decide how
history has dealt with the email issue. I in the mean time am going to
write, and figure out some way of doing a better job with this
information.

