================
Too Many Choices
================

.. post:: 2005-07-08
   :author: tychoish

I had the opportunity to scour the shelves of the shop today, and I'm
coming to the stark realization that sport weight yarn is really not
that easy to come by. It's not hip, it doesn't go by that fast, and I'm
looking for what most would consider fairly boring yarn. Plain wool or
wool like fiber. So be it. Additionally, I learned that the shop isn't
going to be stocking Dale of Norway in the future, so getting yarn for
the St. Moritz sweater is out. (I'd have to buy the colors we don't have
in bags of 10, which won't do if I need 2 balls of one color)
Furthermore, the chances of a cherry tree hill order coming in while I'm
still here are slim, especially if I want this to be my next project. So
my current plan of attack is to: hold off on the dale pattern: I'm not
ready to make it yet anyway, and it looks like I'm going to have to
order that on line, anyway. As for the other sweater, I have a number of
options, and mostly for my own purposes I'd like to review them:

Lets keep in mind: Cheap is good, but I'd like to avoid skimping. I'm
aiming for sport weight yarn. Because I intend to knit all-over stranded
color work, I want to use fine yarn so the end garment isn't too thick,
and because I want this to take a while. I need about 1000-1200 yards of
each color. I've thought about having one variegated strand against one
black strand. So that's where it stands

**Elann Alpaca Option:** I'm really a huge fan of alpaca. Its such a
nice fiber, and really I'd like to try and use it when possible. I'm not
going to pay a lot out of my way to use it, but given the nature of this
project I have been considering it heavily. This yarn is 70/30 Baby
Alpaca/"Fine" Merino, and I've been thinking about a Juniper/Celestial
Blue combination, or a Pearl Grey Tweed/Saxony Blue. The total price
would come to $49.84, before shipping. Pros: price, fiber content. Cons:
color.

**Knit Picks Andean Treasure Alpaca Sport:** This has been the alternate
to the yarn that I would find in the shop. I've not actually experienced
it, but I trust Knit Picks' reputation. I'm leaning towards Summer
Sky/Mystery color combo, with a fog/granite option running a close
second. Total Cost: $75.80. Pros: Fiber, Color, Free Shipping. Cons:
Price, Slightly Limited Color Options, and heat (too warm to work on in
the summer).

**Top of The Lamb Sport:**\ I've been really fond of this Brown Sheep
Yarn for a while. It's sport weight, knits up real nice. It's like their
much more popular lambs pride yarn, except without the mohair, it has
less guard hairs, and I think that makes it feel nicer. It would be in
my best interest to buy two 1 lb cones, undecided about the color, but I
like this color card more. I'm partial to some combo Charcoal Heather,
Cobalt Blue, Blue Flannel, or the Teal. But I'm open to suggestions.
Total Cost: ~$52. Pros: Color, Cool Looking Yarn, Possibility for
leftovers (and not having to worry about running out); Cons: Just plain
old wool, less portable.

**Webs Option:**\ The colors aren't great, but gosh the price is. If I
can go into an order with someone, webs gives 20% off orders over 60
dollars. It wouldn't take a lot of convincing for me to get a cone of
this for a shawl, I'd jump on this for this project, but there really
isn't a good color for this sweater. Anyway, I digress. The colors are
limited but I'm thinking about Sage/Teal or Blue/Moss. Total Price: $3o.
Pros: Price! Cons: Limited Color Selection, don't know how it feels,
maybe a very slightly bit bulkier than I want.

I think that's all the options at the moment. The Elann Alpaca option
seems to combine a number of good features, but I'm unsure about the
colors, I like top of the lamb as an option, and it might be light
enough to work out in this season. The TotL is a yarn that's always
going to be around, and the Webs option is the right price and it's
closeout so that might be nice. I think the Knit Picks option is loosing
at the moment though.

Anyway, I expect people to comment and give me strong advice, none of
this "you'll decide the best option" stuff. Be firm, if I don't like it,
I won't listen to the advice, but I need help here. So yeah. There you
go. Cheers.
