=====================
tycho, happy birthday
=====================

.. post:: 2009-05-19
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: update, journal

So, I feel like, in honor of the fact that today is my birthday, I'm
going to write a little bit of a self centered and reflective post.
Don't worry. I have a post ready for you for later today that's... of
more general appeal.

I feel pretty good about the way things are going these days. I still
have a pretty big todo list, of course, but I don't really find myself
going to bed wondering "how did it get so late and what did I do with my
day?" which is a sign that I'm in rough shape. Nonetheless, I've been
distractable of late, to combat this I've been working more concertedly
on the laptop, and using my desktop-rig as a more social environment.
I'm not entirely pleased with this setup, but I'm getting work done, so
that's worth something.

I've also been getting up early (wake-times before 7:00 am) and asleep
whenever it feels required, usually 11 (on average), and while I haven't
been exercising regularly (as in walks), I have been dancing a lot. It's
Morris Dance season, so that makes up for things--slightly. Our ale, the
gathering I go to every memorial day, is this weekend (of course) and
that promises to be a lot of fun. In any case, I think good
self-care/activity levels are a big reason of why I'm not in the loony
bin. Also, I think my stamina has improved as a result and I'm able to
do Morris dance without my knees giving me problems, and/or wearing
myself out *quite* as much. At the same time I've spent a lot of time in
recent days getting ready for the Morris Ale (it's amazing how many
pairs of socks one needs/wants at an ale!)

I fear that I write with too many parentheticals. I'm able to counter
this tendency in fiction, but I've failed at it in blog posts. My brain
was made for footnotes, I suppose. I've not found a suitably fast
`markdown <http://www.daringfireball.com/projects/markdown/>`__
converter that supports footnotes, so I'm not writing with footnotes,
and as a result parens usage goes through the rough. I wonder what's
going to happen when I have to write real academic things again. As a
corollary, I'm pretty sure that my blog-writing "sounds" very much like
the way I talk, if you were wondering.

And that's about it. I'm not doing anything really special for the day,
be in touch, though, it's always fun to talk to you all.

Cheers!

