======================
\ttycho garen, blogger
======================

.. post:: 2007-11-27
   :author: tychoish

Since I spent some time last week upgrading and tweaking the
tychoish.com design and back-end, I've been prone to thinking about my
role/life as a blogger.

In late august and september, I did my little redesign of TealArt.com
and put it on hiatus, because I liked what I was doing with tychoish,
because it was becoming increasingly clear to me that I didn't want to
write that site alone particularly when I wasn't getting any sort of
return, whatsoever. I thought I'd give the site till the end of the
year, on hold and then see how I felt.

I think I'm going to, at some point, merge the sites back together, at
least in the back-end (I think there'd be a way, with some very creative
mySQL foo to do that without having it be excruciatingly apparent to the
viewing public.) Initially, I wanted to pull tychoish into tealart, but
now I'm thinking that the other way might be cleaner, and better looking
forward. That's a technical project that I don't think we need to get
into here.

The reason I'm considering merging the archives is that a site like
tychoish is really the only kind of site that I'm interested in running
by myself, alone, from a writing perspective. If it isn't a tychoish
post, I should probably try and find ways to post it elsewhere. Also,
while tychoish is still slowly climbing to get to the traffic that
TealArt had/has, it's close *and* the traffic is "higher quality"
(longer times on the site, lower bounce rates, etc.) So that seems to be
a good way to do that.

I mean I'm not going to stop using the tealart.com domain, probably
ever, and I can think of a lot of cool projects that might be fun to run
under the TealArt banner (knit alongs, station keeping season 2, a
podcast type thing, and so forth), but I don't think that I need a blog
for that. I mean I'm still a ways off on this, but I think this is the
direction that I'm headed in.

Thanks for listening.

Cheers!

