=========================
\ttycho garen is blogging
=========================

.. post:: 2007-11-27
   :author: tychoish

So, this is what I get for writing entries ahead of time. That was a
TealArt practice that I need to let go of, I guess.

The `last entry <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/tycho-garen-blogger/>`__,
which I posted just after midnight, was, stale before it even went live.
I wrote it yesterday to describe my thoughts regarding the status of
TealArt and tychoish, which as you can tell from the previous entry,
I've felt for a while now, are at some sort of a crossroads. Something
needed to change, and TealArt just wasn't fun for me anymore, and wasn't
what I needed to be spending any time and energy on.

So so last night, I imported all my old archives from TealArt (chris'
went to `chris' new site <http://www.cgkreality.com/>`__) and basically
everything is the way I want it.

There was a slight snafu that some of you are probably painfully aware
of: I forgot to turn off my `crossposting
scripts <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/wordpress-livejournal-crossposting/>`__
so, most embarrassingly I sent out 300+
`tweets <http://www.twitter.com/tychoish/>`__ in the span of about 10
minutes. The saddest thing is that I I couldn't get it to stop for
another ten (and I still had to revert to a backup and try it again
anyway). Sorry for the confusion. Also, all of my tealart posts are now
backlogged on live-journal, and will likely stay there henceforth. Some
are probably double posted, but such is life, and I don't really seem to
care enough to go back and edit these things.

After all that, I did realize that, even though I'm really keen on
keeping the archives online, I really don't want anyone to actually
*read* these posts.

As for TealArt, moving forward, I've found a new CMS that I think will
be perfect for the small, mostly static site that I hope to turn TealArt
into in the next few weeks. I have a couple of projects--station
keeping, some knitting patterns, maybe a podcast, maybe a science
fiction collection, and so forth--that I think would be perfect for
TealArt, but I think the structure of a blog, is something that won't
really fit the kind of projects that I would hope to work on here. So
this new CMS, is a good move, I think. I'm not trying to be coy about my
plans, I mostly don't have any yet.

Anyway, now that that's out of the way, I think we're ready to return to
regularly scheduled programing around here.

Onward and Upward!

