===========================================
Unexpected Genres/Thoughts on Discplanarity
===========================================

.. post:: 2007-10-09
   :author: tychoish

As you may have guessed I'm not that good with respecting traditional
boundaries. It took me a long time to find an academic field that
addressed the issues I'm interested in on the scope that I'm interested
in. I'm interested in the identity *vis a vis* the cultural construction
of memory, and because identity is a subject that is so often addressed
by personality and social psychologists, I thought, of course that's
where I should be working. Wrong. Turns out, all the cool work on the
subject is being done by developmentalists who work sort of at the
confluence of linguistics and anthropology, more or less. That's not
something they teach you in Psych 100, alas--it might be something *I*
would teach you in Psych 100, however.

Similarly, in my (science) fiction writing, I often say that I write
pretty straightforward and unabashed space opera, much in the same way
that I used to say that I wanted to be a social or personality
psychologist. But as I'm planning out this new book, I'm realizing that
that's not strictly true.

The novella, was probably about half way between cyber-punk and space
opera, except that all of the story is set on Mars and Earth, which is
about the extent of human occupation, and it still takes 6-12 months to
get between Mars and Earth. Not exactly star trek, even though it's
theoretically set a few hundred years after Captain Kirk.

The project I'm working on now, is more in space, and while I'm going to
be playing with a few cyberpunk ideas/settings, it's still not very
Captain Kirk-ish. Earth to Saturn takes about 3 weeks, and for
interstellar flights, figure pretty damn close to lightspeed, but not
there. While this sounds more like a space opera, I think my general
tone is much less... romantic. I think I'd generally agree with `Debra
Doyle's assertion that SF is a genre of
romances <http://www.sff.net/people/doylemacdonald/genre2.htp>`__, I'm
just less, bright and shiny about.

Maybe someday I'll find a happy home for the fiction projects. In the
mean time. I have things I should be doing. eek.

cheers, t.

