========
Upcoming
========

.. post:: 2008-08-25
   :author: tychoish

I just wanted to pop in out of lecture mode (sigh) and give a brief sort
of "meta report," of what I'm working on, where I am in life, and what
my plans are for the blog are in the next little bit.

First off, as next Monday is a national holiday (whew) and I'm going to
be out of town doing family stuff for the long weekend, I'm not going to
have a *`Critical Futures <http://criticalfutures.com/>`__* post on
monday. The current story, "Visa Riots" (in `Trailing
Edge <http://criticalfutures.com/projects/trailing-edge>`__) will run
through Wednesday (6 parts) and then I'll have a little two part
`Station
Keeping <http://criticalfutures.com/projects/station-keeping/>`__ story
so we'll be able to start September with a new section of something fun.

I've been hard at work planning a new novel, writing more Station
Keeping. I've also been working a lot, but my current employment
situation is going to be changing significantly in September (I'm in a
"hurry up and wait," situation, but I remain optimistic.) In any case,
the next job will be more flexible, whatever it is, and I'm pretty
confident that the impending changes in my life that happen this fall
will be exciting and productive.

In terms of the blog, I've decided that unless something seems *really*
important I'm not going to talk about things I'm writing and the writing
process. I might still post book reviews and thoughts on reading, but
I'll probably tone that down as well. I'm not sure that it's been
helpful to my process and workflow to spend time reflecting on these
sorts of things, and I'd rather spend my blogging time talking about
other things, like...

Knitting and technology. I'm starting to knit more again, and I'm pretty
aware that you all in blogland are--at least for the moment--primarily
knitters. So, I think blogging about knitting will be helpful and fun.

In terms of technology, I've been through a couple of phases about my
writing about technology for this blog, and I've not been incredibly
happy with my previous modes. I think writing about material technology
gadgets/hardware, endorses consumerism in a way that I don't thinks
interesting or fun. And while I remain interested in productivity and
technology, writing about being productive isn't productive (ie.
`productivity
porn <http://wiki.43folders.com/index.php/Productivity_pr0n>`__) and in
my experience always gets hung up on fadish systems or tools, and that's
not interesting. So I'll probably continue to blog about producivity,
but much less than I have been.

I'm interested in writing more about open source stuff. `My post about
drupal <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/on-drupal-and-product-design/>`__
was a lot of fun, and I've had some other thoughts which will
(hopefully) germinate into full grown posts in the next couple of weeks.

I understand that the geeks might not get the knitting and the knitters
might not get the tech stuff but stay tuned in any case, I'm a
generalist in both camps, and I promise to be enthusiastic.

Also I have a little script to ease in the posting of links and other
miscellany that I find along my travels through cyberspace, I just have
to get better at *using* it. That should help even out any over
specialization that I might be prone to.

So that's what's on my plate and mind. What's on yours?

On/up!

