==============
V-Neck Shaping
==============

.. post:: 2008-08-18
   :author: tychoish

In my `last
post <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/latvain-dreaming-body-and-gussets/>`__
about the `latvian dreaming
project <http://tychoish.com/tag/latvian-dreaming/>`__
(`rav-link <http://www.ravelry.com/projects/tychoish/latvian-dreaming>`__),
I explained how to get from the cast on, to the gussets. Given that I've
*finally* gotten past this, I have another post in this series for you.

If you're doing this shoulders the way I am (dropped), with square
armholes with underarm gussets, do what I'm doing. If you're interested
in doing something with shaped armholes or a yoke, I can write something
up along those lines (and probably will,) but some prodding on your part
might be in order. Anyway, here's how I'm knitting this:

Once your gusset measures three inches, and your sweater is long enough,
place all the gusset stitches on a thread/holder of some kind. and cast
on 11 stitches for the steak in the following sequence. **D** L **D** L
*L* **D** *L* L **D** L **D**. You'll keep the dark/background stitches
(**D**) at the begining and end as well as the center 3 stitches in the
same color. Alternate the other six stitches in sucessive rows so that
the steek looks like:

::

DL D L LDL L D LD
DD L D LDL D L DD
DL D L LDL L D LD
DD L D LDL D L DD
DL D L LDL L D LD
DD L D LDL D L DD

When you're done the dark/background stitches on the side will be the
stitches that you pick up, and the center dark stitch will be the stitch
that you cut. I've never had one of these steeks ravel, but if you have
a prefered steek, do that, by all means.

Knit for three inches, or to wherever you want the apex of the V neck to
start. I knit three inches, but I like deep yokes and high v-necks, so
it's up to you.

Put the center front stitch on a thread/safety pin. Cast on another
steek as above. Decrease on either side of the steek on the next and
every alternating row until...

Well that's the question, isn't it? All the instructions that I've seen
suggest that v-necks should be 20% of K or 64 stitches around, That
works out to 34 stitches across the front, or 16 pairs of decreases.

To check your numbers, know that neck openings should almost always be
between 14-16 inches, or 7-8 inches across the front. Do the percentage
system, see what it comes out to, and then check, and then get as close
to one of those numbers as you can.

Once you decrease your chosen number of stitches (because even *I* am
not bold enough to say, "the right number"), stop decreasing, and knit
until the armhole is deep enough. (Armholes should be, I think around
9-10 inches, but check).

I have a few more tricks up my sleeve (ha!) regarding the collar (a
weird place for them I know.) Including shoulder straps and round/crew
necks. Anyone interested?

If you have questions please do ask! I'll be in touch, and I'll get
pictures of my progress up... soonish.

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!

