===========
VMs For All
===========

.. post:: 2008-09-19
   :author: tychoish

In my post/rant about IM clients, I mentioned that I was running a
Ubuntu instalation in a VM instance on my MacBook. I am in fact, not
crazy, and I'd even go so far as to recomend this experience for most
other people. Here's why:

First off, virtual machines let you save state in snapshots. So, as a
general practice make a backup snapshot when you get your computer set
up (which you save for safe keeping), and then again at regular
intervals (every week, say), and then a third one just in case before
you change any setting that might screw things up. That way, if things
get really bad, you have a known good setup, something working that's no
more than 7 days out of date, and protection against botching your
system in an upgrade. This isn't as backing up your data, (which you
should also do) but it's important to do anyway.

The second great thing about virtual machines is that they let you
sandbox the operating system. But you like your operating system sans
sand? Me too. Conventually we run our operating systems "on the metal"
and our operating system is in charge managing all the hardware
interactions, but in virtualized instances the VM software does all this
for you, and the "guest" operating system runs in an isolated
enviroment. What this means is that you can move a virtual machine from
one computer to another (mine's 6.3 gigabytes, I could put it on a flash
stick!) without *any* problems. Also, if you have some sort of driver
problem on your host operating system, the VM isn't subject to that, and
you won't get intsability from crapy drivers (exactly). And if you're
using the VM for testing and you manage to screw up something crucial
the VM is the only thing that crashes.

Not to mention that you can generally start, stop, and *pause* virtual
machines at will, so say you're working on things in a virtualized
linux, but need to run OS X system updates, you can puase your work in
the VM update the system, restart and then unpause the VM and be right
where you stoped.

*Sweet!*

VMs have become more popular/prevelent in the last several years as Macs
have started running on the same x86/"intel" hardware that PCs have been
running on for years. If Macintosh hardware is just pretty looking PCs
with only one mouse button, it makes it easy (and tempting) to want to
virtualize OSes on desktops, particularly as for people switching from
Windows to OS X, who either need to use their existing software or who
just want something familar near by. And the great news is that since
virtualization has been used for years in servers, the programers are
pretty good at writing the software.

So it seems to me, that VMs might be *the way* that we all interact with
our desktop computers in a few years. There are a lot of
useability/backup benefits, not to mention the portability ability, and
it could also improve operation, depending on who gets stuck with
managing the metal/hardware. I think the possibilities are pretty
endless.

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!

