================
Wednesday Update
================

.. post:: 2009-04-02
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: links, literature, cyborg

I've been writing a great deal in the past few days: blog posts, the
seed content for a wiki, fiction at a somewhat impressive pace (for me).
While (at press time) there are still lots of things on my plate and
storms on the horizon it's very true that doing creative things, getting
work done makes it considerably easier to do more creative things, and
to get more work done. The stuff on my plate and the storms on the
horizon in another seem less threatening. It's not logical, but I'm not
going to argue with that.

Of note: I `posted another story to Critical Futures from Chapter 6 of
Knowing Mars <http://criticalfutures.com/2009/03/homefront-1/>`__, this
is the last scene in this chapter, and I'll post it in three chapters.
After that, we're going to get PDFs of Chapters 4-6, and I'll be posting
more about that in time. Thanks to `everyone's replies to my post about
my emacs
process <http://tychoish.com/posts/things-to-learn-in-emacs/>`__, both
on the thread and on `identi.ca <http://identi.ca/tychoish/replies>`__.
I'm much impressed with all of your wisdom, and assistance. I didn't
know about wdired-mode which I shall explore, and while I did know about
`magit <http://zagadka.vm.bytemark.co.uk/magit/>`__, I hadn't gotten
around to trying it yet. Here I come.

One last thing, if there are any perl,
`ikiwiki <http://www.ikiwiki.info>`__,
`CGI::FormBuilder <http://www.formbuilder.org/>`__,
`Dreamhost <http://www.dreamhost.com>`__ wizards out there, I would be
very flattered and indebted if you'd take a look at `this bug report I
filed on
ikiwiki <http://ikiwiki.info/bugs/CGI__44___formbuilder__44___non-existent_field_address/>`__,
I'm having some sort of minor problem with CGI form *generation*, which
is such a minor bug that I'm highly annoyed at the concept. On the one
hand, it's a lot of effort to get ikiwiki working under these
conditions, on the other hand it doesn't make a lot of sense to pay for
a really robust server (with root access) for what will really be a
minimal amount of content. Anyway, your help would be much appreciated.

ps. sorry for the late content.

pps. if you record a podcast over a skype (or other VoIP service) with
Audacity and you're running Ubuntu/Debian/Linux... I'd love to hear from
you.

