=================
Wedndesdy Checkin
=================

.. post:: 2008-02-07
   :author: tychoish

**Note:** *I meant to post this yesterday, but neglected to hit the post
button. Apparently. Here it is for archival purposes. I'll have
something more contemporary, in a little bit.--tg*

Well. I just wanted to post a quick little something, because it's what
I do, and I don't quite have time for more.

This whole "hurry up and wait" for notifications from graduate schools I
think is really getting to me. I'm having a hard time concentrating on
anything particularly meaningful, and I haven't had work in a while to
structure my time. And one thing after another.

The end result: I haven't really been able to concentrate on anything
terribly complex in days. So, I've resolved myself to knitting, and
spinning, consuming media (podcasts, television, etc.) and just waiting
it out. Unlike many of anxiety producing things in our lives, this is
something that I *really truly* have **no** control over.

On the upside, I've made great strides with my knitting, and I'm
spinning BFL 2ply, which looks really nice, if a bit boring (but
hopefully someone will dye the yarn once it's yarn.) And I'm just
chugging a long.

I think my main project of the moment is getting the new tealArt site up
and running. It's mostly pretty good, but I do have some work left to do
that I'm slowly clawing away at. Lets not be surprised if I have a
number of sites that look a lot like tychoish.

I've also started to do some drafting long hand, and that seems to be
the only way that I can get output managed at the moment. Though not
ideal, it's pretty good, and the truth is that writing with my pen--I'll
write something about it at some point when I'm in better shape--is a
really pleasurable experience, and I'm having fun doing things a little
different.

Anyway, I'm still alive. Hope you are too. I'll be in touch.

Onward and Upward!

