========================================
We&#8217;ll Always Have Star Wars&#8230;
========================================

.. post:: 2005-06-13
   :author: tychoish

I'm one of those people. You know, the people who can forgive George
Lucas for lots of grievous foul ups, and still love Star Wars. The idea
of it. (That will not only read all those damn books, but also give them
a great deal of priority over a host of far better options.) I think at
the heart of it, I attach to saga's, and I've attached to this one. So
deal with it. What follows is a critique of the most recent movie. I
hope you enjoy. I liked the story, but then I like all the stories. It
connected the two stories very nicely, and in most respects it answered
the questions that I thought needed to be answered. And of course, I
have a few nits to pick.

.. raw:: html

<ul>
<li>

Mace Windu, refers to Palpatine as "Emperor" as, or shortly after
Palpatine, makes his ascension speech to the Senate. Windu should have
refereed to him as Chancellor. It's an editing glitch, but the fact that
I noticed it, and I'm usually not that sharp for these kinds of things,
says something to me.

.. raw:: html

</li>
<li>

The scene where Anakin becomes Darth Vader, not the appearance of the
black cloaked figure we all know and love, but the sort of "moment" is a
complete waist. Palapatine says, "come join me in my dark dark plans for
dominion" and Anakin says "Ok, I'll do whatever you want." And the shame
of it is, the proper motivation and reasoning was there. It wasn't like
they screwed up the whole point of the book, it was just in the delivery
of that scene was pretty bad.

.. raw:: html

</li>
<li>

Minor quibble, but Padame, shouldn't have died on the table. Leia
remembers her mother, vaguely, when Luke asks of her in RotJ. Now of
course, it's possible to think that you have memories of things you
didn't actually observe, but I doubt that this psychological phenomena
was what they had in mind.

.. raw:: html

</li>
<li>

Darth Vader is always described as one of the Emperor's greatest
servants, which I see as problematic. Now of course this is more a
problem with Episodes 4-6. Sith Apprentices always kill their masters,
eventually. And Vader, knows this, and I suppose this goes back to the
motivation in my second comment, but that person (Anakin
Skywalker/Vader) is rebellious enough that I don't think the characters
jive.

.. raw:: html

</li>
<li>

Lets remember, that there are twenty years between the end of revenge,
and A New Hope (IV). Now even if you grant that the sequence at the end
where they show Palpatine and Vader standing on the bridge of a Star
Destroyer, working on the Death Star, as being somewhere between the
bulk of the movies, it's still problematic. First of all, the bridge
looks a lot like that of the *Executor* which wasn't even built until
after the Battle of Yavin (so the time's way off).

.. raw:: html

</li>
<li>

Captian Antilles, who apeared as one of the Naboo pilots, in the first
movie, and now seems to be somehow tied to Bail Organa's Ship, (and
presumably Wedge's father), is somehow from Correllia? Right. If it's
true, it's an impressive record.

.. raw:: html

</li>
</ul>

I would like to say that I liked the many nods to events to come, and
cameo's that were sort of thrown in there. Like there was a shot with
Grand Moff Tarkin. The implication that the Artoo the second trilogy,
"remembered" the events of the first. Things like that made it
delightful.

So that's where I am with that. If anyone has similar comments I'd love
to hear them.

