======================================
Western Feminism and Non-Western Lives
======================================

.. post:: 2004-11-11
   :author: tychoish

In my feminisms class a few weeks ago we read an article by Chandra
Talpade Mohanty concerning the ways that the western feminist discourse
address and comments on the "third world." Basically it commented on the
Hegemony of western feminism as it determines who and what is oppressive
for third world women, and thus constructs third world women, as
uneducated, unaware, and ignorant of feminism. This is problematic and
oppressive in of itself as western feminists use these perceptions as a
way of reasserting imperialistic attitudes on the third world.

Connected to Mohanty's argument is a discussion of the veil as worn by
Islamic women. Many western feminists view the veil as an oppressive
tool. And there are Islamic feminists who *want* to wear the *hijab*,
who feel victimized by those western women who wish to abolish the
veiling customs.

I went to a speech by one of classmates yesterday which talked about the
*hijab* and other forms of female veiling in the Islamic world. The
speaker made the point that the *hijab* represented tradition, faith,
and invoked a kind of reverence that was very cultural. One of the
audience members (from Cairo) who wore the *hijab*, said that her mother
had gone back and forth on the veil and had worn it for a time, and then
not worn it. While another audience member brought up the idea that
there wasn't always the choice to wear the veil, the argument that most
women have some sort of choice in many Islamic countries was very
present.

Which leaves me with an almost icky feeling in my stomach. I like
cultural traditions, and the modernist in me has found a lot of really
appealing things about Islam as I've learned a bit about it this
semester (which I think is because it's so jewish like). As a result of
this, and just on general principal, I'm inclined to think that
non-western feminists should be able to practice their cultures how ever
they wish to. If this means wearing the *hijab*, so be it, and as
westerners we need to listen to, and respect feminists from the
so-called third world even if they wear a veil.

At the same time it's an artifact of religion. R-E-L-I-G-I-O-N. I tend
to think that the major so called monotheisms (Islam is way closer to
monotheism than just about anything I can think of, but it's of no
matter). I'm wary of any religion that takes power away from people
rather than empowers the people that follow it. Islam is all about
submission to god. This isn't an anti-Islam sentiment, it's an unabashed
anti-religion sentiment.

On a theoretical level I think the veil (as a product of Islam) should
not be used as a method for liberation, at the same time on a practical
level I can completely recognize the way in which a veil could be used
as a way of maintaining a cultural identity. But I think this issue is
complex and we can't easily define in terms of a good bad dualism.

