===================
We\&#039;ve Arrived
===================

.. post:: 2003-07-06
   :author: tychoish

So I'm not going to pull a Steve Bush and give a complete history of
CollectiveArts and TealArt right now (ask me sometime about Steve Bush,
and I might just tell you), because I think it's fairly likely that you
know more than you probably ever wanted to know of these sites'
back-story. But I do think I've finally come to a conclusion that may
offer some interesting insight, and there may be a tangible change at
last.

There is one speck of history that I don't tend to tell people very
much. We'll call this story 'the discovery of blogs:' When Jason Dunn of
PocketPCThoughts switched from Blogger to Greymatter, I discovered Noah
Grey and Greymatter and a whole world of really great blogs. While I had
seen blogger/blogspot stuff before, in the beginning at least, the
people who took the time to use a program like Greymatter, generally had
better quality work, but I digress. The possibilities that CMS's like
Greymatter and the blogging format inspired me and knew that I had to be
a part of this whole movement (before it was a movement of course). But
ever the individualist, I had to do something unique and different.

Thus the monster known as CollectiveArts was born. I really just wanted
an awesome blog with a few really talented folks contributing and
offering their unique perspectives. I dragged the CollectiveArts concept
around countless times and the record really speaks for itself. At some
point down the line, Lynda of DigitalWoe purchased the TealArt.com
domain for a friend, but fatefully, those plans fell through, and she
offered a two year registration of this quirky domain to anyone who
wanted it. Ever the opportunist, I jumped on the offer and the monster
that is this site was born. It's taken us a long time to get on our feet
technologically and personnel wise, but I think that now more than ever
we really have that comfy awesome blog by a few really talented folks.

After almost two and a half years of trying to get this CollectiveArts
project off the ground, we've finally got what I/we were looking for.
The problem is, of course, that instead of an awesome site named
CollectiveArts, we know it as TealArt. But the resounding question of:
'what do we do with CollectiveArts?' remained. Chris and I struggled
with this one for a while, and I've come to the conclusion that it's
time to let go of CollectiveArts. It was a great experiment, and it
paved the way for the development of this site, so I think it was really
worth it, but I don't think it's worth clinging to the notion of
CollectiveArts in light of what's happened. So unless someone wants
CollectiveArts.net, and makes an offer, we're going to let it slip I
think.

So we've arrived, finally, at a solution that works really well for our
needs, and you know, it feels great to be here! Registration is due in
November (or it'll slip), so I think we'll start moving our email
accounts out of there now, and the domain is now pointing to TealArt.
I'm thinking of registering a couple of other domains that I've meant to
take on for a while, but those will go to a more static portfolio type
of site I think, if I even make a site for them. But as for display of
my writing online, TealArt is my home; and I like it this way.

