========================
What is Station Keeping?
========================

.. post:: 2007-04-09
   :author: tychoish

*Note: I tried to pre-post this last night, but it does seem to have
failed. Alas. Here's something that I hope will interest you. Tell me
what you think!*

One of the things I started doing during our `unexpected
hiatus <http://tychoish.com/posts/unexpected-hiatus/>`__, was to think
about what was important to me about TealArt, and what I was most
interested in doing in the future on the site. Server "mishaps" can do
that to a fellow.

I think if the server had fouled up a year ago or even as many as six
months ago, I would have just called it quits: the site wasn't that
active, I didn't have plans/dreams for the future of the site, and with
the addiction of LiveJournal and other semi-blogging outlets, I might
have felt that it just wasn't worth the effort. However, because it
happened *this* year, I was faced with a very different feeling. I had
ongoing projects that depended on TealArt, the
`Tumble-log <http://tychoish.com/tumbls/>`__ and
`twitter <http://www.twitter.com/tychoish/>`__ was important to me, and
I had a dream of a rather *new* TealArt project that I was excited
about.

That project, called *Station Keeping*, is located in it's own `special
corner of TealArt <http://tychoish.com/hanm/>`__, but as always the
posts will be part of the main TealArt blog. You can read more about
*Station Keeping* on the site or on the accompanying `Writer's
Wiki <http://tychoish.com/hanm/wiki/>`__ of course, but I'd like to tell
you a bit about what I hope *SK* will become.

*Station Keeping* is an exploration of a couple of ideas and themes. It
is a series much like the Hyper(digital)text Series, or the
Teaching/Learning Knitting Series, but unlike these projects, it's a
work of fiction. The aim is not to discuss an issue of mild personal
interest, but to tell a story. *SK* is also to be written
collaboratively: while the hope is to have a unified and ongoing
story--which I suspect we will, thanks to the editorial
process--installments and episodes will be written by members of a
writing team who will be responsible for the content and management of
the series. I will participate, certainly, and even direct/cordinate for
a while, until the writing team/community gets a sense of itself, but I
envision the writing *and* the reading of this project as a community
effort.

In terms of the story, *SK* is Science Fiction. No matter how much I run
away from it, I find my self perpetually enthralled by the possibilities
of the genre. One of my guides for TealArt is that it must be *fun* to
work on, and I see no reason to fight the genre I love so much. Not
surprisingly, *Station Keeping* is set on a brand new space station
called Hanm Centre in the distant future, in orbit of a colony world not
surprisingly known as "Hanm." The station is the focal point of a lot of
geo-political (spatial-political?) debate about the future of Humans'
organization and residence in the galaxy, but mostly it's just a port of
call, a job, and a home to an eclectic group of folk. There are no
aliens, ghosts, and humans of the future haven't quite managed to
"break" relativity. *Station Keeping* is in a lot of ways a fluffy space
opera, but I would submit that fluffy space operas are fun, engaging,
and fascinating: after all TealArt is supposed to be fun and engaging,
so it all works out.

Having said that, I'm busy finishing up school for this semester,
graduating, getting ready for grad school next year, and preparing to
apply again next year; to mention nothing of the other TealArt projects
that I'm already working on. *Station Keeping* won't start it's regular
run for a few weeks, and possibly a month or so. So go ahead, you can
call it `vapor <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaporware>`__ blogging, but
in the mean time, I'd like to use Monday mornings (the time when I
expect we'll post *SK* installments, once we start), to post short
updates about our progress in development, and our process. Once *SK*
starts for real, the meta will become a more occasional feature, but I
hope that you'll enjoy this discussion.

If you're interested in learning more about this project, I'd enjoy
hearing from you, otherwise I hope you enjoy this discussion and the
story/stories once it debuts.

cheers, tycho

