============================
What We Learn from Wikileaks
============================

.. post:: 2011-02-08
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: new-media

Wikileaks, and the drama that has surrounded it for the past few months,
brings forth images of the Internet as a very lawless and juvenile
place, exactly the kind of thing that the cyberpunks of the 1980s were
predicting. This isn't always far from the truth, but the story of spies
and international espionage, and digital attacks and counter attacks may
distract us from thinking about other issues. Obviously Wikileaks causes
us think about censorship, but issue of publishing, journalism, audience
and community participation, transparency, and globalism in the digital
context are also at play. Lets take the highlights:

Censorship
----------

In the print world, I tend to think of post-facto censorship is
incredibly difficult. Once print copies of something exist they're
*there* and it's hard to get every copy and you can't get people to
"unread" what they've already seen. In the digital world, it's really
difficult to get content taken down, and once there are copies in
people's hands, the cost of making additional copies is low enough that
censorship stops working. Right?

I suppose the appearance of multiple mirrors and copies of Wikileaks
post-takedown proves this, but it also proves that there are aspects of
the world wide web that are not decentralized and it's possible to pull
a domain and site off the Internet at a single point. That's a very
scary proposition. While information survives, I think many people
thought that "you couldn't effectively censor the Internet," and
Wikileaks says "yes you can, and here's how."
(`cite <http://www.teknerve.com/2010/12/getting-uncomfortable-with-the-us-reaction-to-wikileaks/>`__)

In response I think people have started to think about the shape and
structure of the network itself. The Internet is designed to be
resilient to this kind of thing, and this is a very startling example
that it's not.

Publishing, Journalism and Wikis
--------------------------------

I suppose the thing that I get most offended by "Wikileaks" for is the
appropriation of the term "Wiki," because in the current (or last) form,
Wikileaks wasn't a wiki. Content was not edited or supervised by a
community, the Wiki process didn't allow the site to provide consumers
with a more diverse set of opinions, it didn't increase transparency. In
this respect, Wikileaks mostly resembles a traditional "old media,"
publication.

Once wikileaks stops being this radical new journalistic departure, and
this community-driven site, what remains may be pretty difficult to
reconcile. Is it useful for journalists to publish raw source material
without analysis? What audience and purpose does that serve? The
censorship of Wikileaks is problematic and requires some reflection, but
there are problems with wikileaks itself that *also* require some
serious thinking.

And just because it's a sore point, particularly since Wikileaks is/was
a traditional publication and is not a platform for independent speech,
we have to think about this as "freedom of the press" issue rather than
a "freedom of speech" issue.

Community Involvement
---------------------

The involvement of a community in Wikileaks, is over-shadowed by the
groundswell of "community" activity by Anonymous and other groups. Look
to `Gabriella Coleman <http://gabriellacoleman.org/blog/>`__
(`twitter <http://www.twitter.com/#!/BiellaColeman>`__) for more
thorough analysis. I don't have any answers or conclusions but: the role
and effectiveness of (distributed) denial of service attacks in this
instance is really quite important.

Usually DoSes are quick, messy and easily dealt with affairs: DoS
someone, get noticed, target and attacking addresses get taken off the
air and people loose interest and things return to normal. This back and
forth, seems a bit unique (but not unheard of) the fact that the
4chan/Anon gang picked Wikileaks jives with their ethos, but it is
impressive that they were able to get organized to support Wikileaks. I
find myself curious and more surprised that *someone* was able to, at
least for a while, throw something in the neighborhood of 10 gigabits
(an unverified number, that originates with Wikileaks itself, so
potentially inflated) at the original Wikileaks site. That's huge, and I
think largely unexplored.

Transparent Operations
----------------------

In July, `Quinn Norton wrote about transparency and
wikileaks <http://www.quinnnorton.com/said/?p=393>`__, basically, that
exposing information doesn't solve the problem that governments don't
operate in a transparent manner, and that access to documents and
transparency are the result of a more open way of doing
business/government. Particularly in light of this, the fact that
wikileaks focuses on data dumps rather than more curated collections of
information or actual analysis, is all the more problematic.

Similarly, "wiki" as practiced in the original model (as opposed to
wikileaks,) is about editing and document creation in an open and
transparent manner. Thus the issue with wikileaks is not that they
have/had a professional staff, but that they didn't disclose their
process.

Onward and Upward!

