============================
What is Narrative After All?
============================

.. post:: 2006-04-15
   :author: tychoish

William Safire, discusses narratives, in his article concerning the 2004
presidential election.

A Softer World a photo/comic, is narrative in the most basic sense.

Novels, plays, short stories are narrative. Mostly. But I have doubts
about Rolling the R's, by R. Zamora Linmark, and Debie: An Epic, by Lisa
Robertson may or may not be. And while we're at it question this too.
But I wouldn't want you to run too far down this path, because there's
limited utility in running in that direction.

I sat down with myself and forced out a definition (really an
operationalization, if you must) of Queer, which I think is much harder
to pin down. **Narratives** are a method of using language. Statements
which convey a progression of time, and I'd argue depend on some sort of
profound change, either in it's content (the subjects and objects at
play) or on the creator, conveyer, or audience.

Having said that, the key issue here I suppose is not, "what is
narrative?" but "why study narrative?"

You'd think that would be easier to answer, and that I'd be able to
weave a little story about how I was drawn to this, and why I'm putting
so much energy into this wacky interdisciplinary endeavor which frankly
runs counter to most of the trends in the social sciences (or
psychology, which is what my major is in).

I'm interested in narratives because it seems to be a (marginally)
viable way of doing social science research that doesn't completely
dehumanize the subject, without sacrificing all but the most superficial
claims to validity (a la case studies, which are great tools for
imparting knowledge, but rather lousy at producing it.) Because studying
narratives, gives worth and meaning to a multitude of different voices
and that seems like a useful way to use one's energy.

That's not complete, but I hope it's a good start.

Cheers,

