=====================================
Where's My Flying Car/Tablet Computer
=====================================

.. post:: 2008-06-10
   :author: tychoish

There are technologies that seem to evoke "the future," that when we see
them, we think "wow that has the future written all over it." The flying
car is like that. VR computer interfaces are like that. And because they
represent the future SF writers--like myself--use these tropes to tell
our readers "hey look, this is the future." And I think as a result, we
sort of think that these kinds of technologies are familiar and within
within reach and/or seem like something something that would
productively enhance our lives.

But a flying car? More complex, more energy, more dangerous (if you
think there are a lot of bad drivers with one axis of control, imagine
what adding another would do) and it probably wouldn't be appreciably
faster for most tasks. They're cool, but as a technology, it doesn't
solve an extant problem in our world.

Same with virtual reality systems. It would require lots of energy (both
in terms of CPU cycles, but more importantly in terms of programer and
sysop time,) and while it might present some interesting
entertainment/social/data visualization opportunities it represents a
rather ineffective way to interact with a computer. The enduring (and
growing) success of unix-stlye operating systems (which use simple text,
and frequently a command line) to communicate with the user is testament
to this fact. Until you can figure out a way to get data into someone's
head faster then reading, or out of someone's head than typing, any sort
of virtual reality system is basically useless.

In a similar sort of vein, contemporary technology users, myself among
them, look eagerly at tablet-style devices as heralding the next wave of
computing: much like avid futurists might look toward flying cars or
virtual reality. They're portable, they're powerful, they're pretty, and
ultimately, they're ineffective for general use, because in the end,
while tablet computers are great for absorbing data quickly, they are
much less effective when you need to get *more* data into them. So we'll
have tablet computers of some kind, in the next few years--basically we
already do, but it's not the next big thing in computing, that's for
sure, and yet, I think we latch onto things like tablets because it
seems like the next place for technological development. But it isn't
really.

