==================================
Where Have all the Blog Posts Gone
==================================

.. post:: 2007-09-15
   :author: tychoish

I feel like I should start this post off in a very Garrison Keilor sort
of way. Maybe something like, *It was the first cool day of the season
and it you could smell cold, like an old friend that had been absent for
too long.*

Cliched though it may seem, I think it's true.

I got some writing done this morning, and I think I'm pretty pleased
with it, and though I'm in the middle of a tough sequence, I like what
I'm doing. I'm writing this part where the narrator is in the main
action, which I realize I haven't yet done. It's a scene that I meant to
write much earlier in the story, but there were other things that needed
to be done then, and it make sense here. I like the way that the
narrative voice of the story is flexible, even if this section is a bit
harder to write.

In other news, sort of rethought how TealArt is going to work as we go
forward. Rather than be a blog in it's own right, it's going to be a
portal--and umbrella--for a host of other projects, including this site,
a very similar one that I'm pushing Chris to start, as well as projects
like Station Keeping, the knitting project that I've been blathering
about, and maybe a roundtable-style podcast that a group of blogging
friends and I have talked about.

This is really just a reflection of the way that it's been for a long
time, I'm just being more explicit about it, and I've tweaked how people
enter the site so to shape this impression a bit, and I'm kind of happy
with this. It solves a lot of angst, and is on the whole a good thing. I
like how this frees up a lot of time in my life to concentrate on
tychoish, which is a great deal of fun, and my fiction writing, which is
really important to me.

The *other* thing that this lets me do, is be a contributor to other
blogs, and projects, which is something that I've not had a lot of
mental energy left over for, because I've been so intent on doing my own
site. While this isn't a bad thing, and indeed rising tides do raise all
boats, I think it's unfair to divide readers' attention with so much
information, and I think at the moment it's more important to foster a
collaborative spirit than it is foster an "every man for himself" kind
of approach.

It just feels right. Like the first whiff of cold in the fall. I'm ready
for this: both the coming winter and this next stage of
creative/development.

