================
Which Way is Up?
================

.. post:: 2008-03-26
   :author: tychoish

**Update:** *I wrote this entry yesterday morning, and in the last
day, a few things have happened that have tempered my enthusiasm a
bit. But not much. Which is glorious.*

I've realized that, while I spend a lot of my "real life" socializing
time involved in various dance activities, I don't actually write about
them in this journal. And it was something that, while I was in school,
I mostly didn't think about much. But god, I dance a lot, and it's a
huge part of "who I am" and "what I do."

One of the things, and perhaps the only really concrete thing, that has
made this past, of being back in the town that I grew up in, is that the
dance community that I've been involved in has been, well, sick, for far
too long. Maybe it has something to do with personalities (actually,
probably); maybe it has something to do with the anarchistic tendency of
dance groups/organization (not an ideological point, but a reference
that dance and other folk groups resist structure, and so organization
and management must be, just a wee bit, heavy handed and always deft.)
In any case, it's been stressful to have ones source of community and
pleasure co-opted by angst. I have enough of that in my life.

*I mean, really now, I have enough angst on tychoish, do I really need
something else to complain about regularly? I think not.*

But a couple of things are looking up. For starters, there are a couple
of positive things happening to the various *dramatis personae* of the
dance groups that I'm apart of. I use the word positive in two senses,
first that I think the situation might improve as a result, but more
significantly that no one has quit dancing (which has been a secret
desire of mine for some time), but rather that additional people are
(re)joining the community in a way that I think is wholly positive.

So I'm happy. I also have an interesting anecdote to share.

In border morris practice, we were starting to learn/write a new dance.
This seems to be par for the course, as there isn't the same sort of
organized repertory in border that there is in cotswold morris.
Furthermore, we are a team of unique size, and body type, so it's useful
to tinker with dances a little bit until the dances fit better. I should
also point out that the border team is reasonably unique in that, the
core of us has been dancing together for *years*.

Anyway, we were learning a new dance, and I rather quickly decided to
suggest a change for a sequence so that the chorus (the distinctive
figure in the dance) wasn't so static, basically by changing the
orientation of the set for a moment. It worked. But it required us to
rethink procedure: "Who goes first?" "Who has priority in this new
situation,"

This is in and of itself not an incredibly difficult problem: often in a
morris dance, you have options, and part of the job of organizing a
team's style is making decisions about these options. For example,
dances start on the left foot or the "outside foot" (the foot furthest
from the center of the set, or your partner depending on the situation).
Or in the case of the problem above: if you turn the set around, who
starts the figure?

The interesting thing, is that there was no central decree, in this
situation, we all new the answer, once we stopped to think about it.
Because we had morris precedent, we just had to recall it and figure out
how to apply it in this situation. Except, we just *did* it, no
argument, no explanation necessary.

It was one of those situations that seems perfectly normal in the
moment, but that you realize immediately as being completely absurd.
It's these moments, and a few others, that help us to feel as if we
belong to a community, and are delightful to experience. And those are
the moments that I'd miss most if I stopped dancing.

Even if the drama lingers--which it surely will as "the good guys" don't
have any balls left in play, and "the bad guys" have no interest in
resolving it--I take great pleasure in having the ability to dance and
have fun dancing. So there.

