====================
why arch linux rocks
====================

.. post:: 2009-07-10
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: arch-linux, cyborg

So, long story short, I've been working a lot with
`ArchLinux <http://www.archlinux.org/>`__ in the last few days, getting
it setup, and starting to use this peculiar little distribution. While I
will surely be blogging more about Arch in the coming days, I think a
brief list of first impressions are in order.

1. **I share values with the Arch Developers.**

This is, I think, a factor of "choosing a Linux (or BSD) distribution"
that is really hard to understand or explain. In part because the values
that distinguish distributions are hard sometimes hard to suss out,
particularly if you're on the outside looking in. This explains the
phenomena of "distro hopping"

My sense of the "Arch" philosophy/approach is largerly what this post is
about, but in summary: arch is lightweight and minimal, Arch expects
users to be sophisticate and intelligent (Arch would rather tell you how
something works, so you can do it "right," than try and save you from
yourself and do it in a way that might be wrong.) Arch is a community
project, and isn't reliant on commercial interests, and arch is firmly
dedicated to free software ideas.

How does this compare to other distributions you've heard of. Arch is
community oriented/originated like slackware and Debian; Arch is
lightweight like debian-netinst and Gentoo; Arch is minimal like Damn
Small Linux (though not quite that minimal) and the other tiny-Linuxes;
Arch is based on binary packages like Debian and Fedora/RedHat/CentOS;
Arch uses linux, but takes inspiration from the BSDs in terms of system
architecture; Arch uses a rolling release cycle like Debian testing
branch and Gentoo.

2. **It doesn't dumb anything down, and doesn't expect users to be
either experts *or* total beginners.**

I think the term they use is "Intermediate" or "Advanced Beginner" but
in any case, but in any case I think the approach is good. Provide
configuration in it's most basic and straightforward form, and rather
than try to make the system easier to configure, document and hope that
straightforward configuration setup will be easier to manage in the long
run than a more convoluted, but "easy" set up.

Basically Arch expects and assumes that complexity and difficulty are
the same, and opposed and that simplicity and ease of use are similarly
connected.

3. **Arch values and promotes minimalism.**

This comes from a few different aspects of Arch but in general, the
avoidance of complexity in the configuration, and the "blank slate"
aspect of the installation process combine to create a system that is
minimal and that is almost entirely agnostic with regards to what you
might want to do with the system.

Where as many linux-based systems are designed for specific tasks (eg.
mythbuntu; medibuntu; linux mint; crunch linux, etc.) and include
software by default that supports this goal. Arch in contrast, install
no (or very little) software by default, and can function well for a
wide range of potential uses, from the fully featured desktop to the
minimalistic headless server install.

4. **The Arch Wiki Rocks.**

I've been thinking about wikis and what makes a wiki "work" rather than
"not work," and I'm beginning to think that the `ArchLinux
Wiki <http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Main_Page>`__ is another
example of a wiki that *works.*

I used to think that wikis powered by the
`MediaWiki <http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki>`__ engine were
always *bad*: they look too much like wikipedia (and are reasonably hard
to customize) and as a result people tend to treat them *like* wikipedia
which caries all sorts baggage from the tradition 19th century
encyclopedic projects and colonialism, and fails to capture some of the
brilliance and effectiveness of wikis outside of the world of wikipedia
(and the MediaWiki engine by association.)

So despite this, the ArchLinux wiki is actually really good and provides
helpful instructions for nearly everything to do with Arch. It looks
good, and the more I read it all of the cool discursive/opinion-based
modality that I enjoy the most about wikis is present on the Arch Wiki.

5. **Archies are really geeky and great, and their interests and
tendencies are reflected in the packages provided by the system:**

Allow me to justify this with a few anecdotes:

-  Arch includes a "snapshot package" from emacs-23 in the main
repository (you have to add another debian repository to get this in
debian).

-  There is a great cross over between Awesome--my window manager of
choice--and Arch, so there are good up to date packages of Awesome.

-  Uzbl, (eg. useable) a super minimalistic, web-kit based browser is
developed on/for Arch.

-  As I was getting my first virtual machine setup, I did a bit of
distro hopping to see what would work best. I decided to use
virtualbox (because it's nearly free software, and reasonably full
featured) and I had a hell of a time getting other OSs to work right
inside of the virtual box, but it appears that other Archies have had
the same thought, and there were pretty good explanations on the wiki
and it just worked.

How cool is that? I don't think arch is for everyone, but, if any of
what I've talked about today sounds interesting/appealing, give it a
shot. Also, my experiences with running it under Virtual Box have been
generally favorable, so if that's more your speed, give it a shot.

Onward and Upward!

