=================================
why tiling window managers matter
=================================

.. post:: 2009-05-08
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: research, open-source, cyborg

I've realized much to my chagrin that I haven't written a post on about
the `Awesome Window Manager <http://awesome.naquadah.org/>`__ in a long
time. It's funny how window managers just fade into the background,
particularly when they work well and suit your needs. Why then, does
this seem so important to me and why am I so interested in this? Funny
you should ask.

Tiling window managers aren't going to be the *Next Big Thing* in
computing, and if they (as a whole) have an active user-base of more
than say 10,000 people that would be really surprising. While I think
that a lot of people would benefit and learn from using Awesome (or
others), even this is something of a niche group.

As a result, I think something really interesting happens in the tiling
window manger space. First, the project is driven by a rather unique
driving force that I'm not sure I can articulate well. It's not driven
by a desire of profit, and it's not driven by some larger Utopian
political goal (as a lot of free software is). This is software that is
written entirely for oneself.

That's the way most (ultimately) free software and open source projects
start. A lot of emphasis in the community (and outside) is made on the
next stage of the progress, where a project that was previously "for
oneself" becomes something larger with broader appeal. Lets start with
the `git version control system <http://www.git-scm.com>`__ which
started because the kernel development team needed a new version control
system, but in the past couple of years has become so much more, by way
of phenomena like `github <http://www.github.com>`__ and
`flashbake <http://bitbucketlabs.net/flashbake/>`__. The free software
and open source worlds are full of similar examples: the Linux Kernel,
Drupal, b2/WordPress, Pidgin/Gain, Asterisk, and so forth.

But Awesome, and the other tiling window managers will, likely as not
never make this jump. There is no commercial competitor for these
programs, they're never going to "breakthrough" to a larger audience.
This isn't a bad thing, it just effects how we think about some rather
fundamental aspects of software and software development.

*First, if developers aren't driven by obvious "us versus them"
competition, how can the software improve? And aren't there a bunch of
tiling window mangers that compete with each other?*

I'd argue that competition, insofar as it does occur, happens within a
project, and within the developer rather than between projects and
between developers. Awesome developers are driven to make Awesome more
awesome, because there's no real competition to be had with Aqua (OS X
window manger,) or other Kwin and Metacity (GNOME and KDE's window
mangers), or even other alternate X11 window managers like
`OpenBox <http://icculus.org/openbox/index.php/Main_Page>`__.

Developers are driven to "do better," than the people that preceded
them, better than their last attempt, better than the alternate
solutions provided by the community. Also, the principals of minimalism
which underpins all of these window managers towards simple, clean, and
lightweight code, inspires development and change (if not growth,
exactly). This seems to hold true under anecdotal observation.

While there are a number of tiling window managers in this space, I'm
not sure how much they actually compete with each other. I'd love to
hear what some folks who use `xmonad <http://xmonad.org/>`__ and
`StumpWM <http://www.nongnu.org/stumpwm/index.html>`__ have to say about
this, but it's my sense that the field of tiling window managers has
more to do with other interests. Xmonad makes a point about the Haskel
programing language. Stump is targeted directly toward emacs users and
demonstrates that Lisp/Common Lisp is still relevant. Awesome brings the
notion of a framework to window management, and seems to perfectly
balances customizable with lightweight design. While Awesome is a
powerful player in this space, I don't think that there's a lot of
competition.

*Second, if there's no substantive competition in this domain and if
there's a pretty clear "cap" to the amount of growth, how are tiling
window managers *not* entirely pointless.*

I think there are two directions to go with this. First I think we're
seeing some of the benefits of these window managers in other projects
like `xcb <http://xcb.freedesktop.org>`__ (a new library for dealing
with X11) and `freedesktop <http://www.freedesktop.org>`__ benefit both
directly and indirectly from the work being done in the tiling window
manager space. Similarly, Xmonad is a great boon to the Haskell
community and cause (I suspect).

The other direction follows `an essay I wrote here a few months ago
about the importance of thinking about the capabilities of programing
languages even if you're not a
programmer <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/sapir-whorf-hypothesis-and-computer-programing/>`__
because languages, like all sorts of highly technical concepts and tools
create and constrain possibilities for all computer users, not just the
people who ponder and use them. In the case of the tiling window
manager, thinking about how the people who are writing computer programs
is productive. In addition to the aforementioned thoughts about
competition and open source.

So there we are. I'll be in touch.

