=============================
Why it All Matters in the End
=============================

.. post:: 2004-08-04
   :author: tychoish

So there's this Message Board for people who are going to Beloit College
in the fall, so that the class that's entering in Fall 2004 can all get
to know each other. Most of the time, the fare is pretty stupid: What
kinds of music do you like? Where are you all from? Why did you choose
Beloit? and so forth. Like the good homosexual I am, I started a thread
for "GLBT/Queer/Other/Non-Straight" people. I've gotten some response, a
few out guys, more more girls, and tons of "I'm not gay, really, but I
love my gay friends." Mostly what I expected, but it was good to bring
the issue up.

A few days ago, a guy posted, asking, "what the big deal is about
sexuality, why do people feel the need to declare themselves?"

At which point I cringed so much that I upset the cat. While in
retrospect, the question did in fact come from an ignorance of the
issue, that wasn't completely evident at the time. That kind of question
struck me as something to be avoided. Like people who say, "I don't see
what the big deal about race is," which is a train of thought which I am
of the opinion should be avoided.

So I wrote this piece, in the vain of, "why sexualities are important
and matter." It's concise, perhaps too concise, but it covers everything
sufficiently. To my surprise I got a number of responses to this piece
and so I'm going to post it here, with a few minor improvements.

Right. Well thenâ€¦

Identity is made up of a few things (concerning gender/sexuality/etc.)
Your behavior, your feelings/desire (I'm lumping, the identity that you
claim, in here, even though that may not match up with actual desires,)
and how other people see you (and thus how you're socialized,) all of
which are situational and subject to change. They all contribute in
different proportions to "the identity," and I'm not going to make a
qualitative judgment as to this system of identity construction, but
they're all factors in this system, which is very much a reality in the
world we live in, and I'll leave this debate at that.

Gender and sex are really important to how we relate to the rest of the
world. When meeting other people before we say hello, before we shake
hands, we make a judgment about people's gender (Boy/Girl). We make
other judgments too, which are also important (race, class, education,
age,) but the "gender call" happens really early. Often this judgment is
correct, though not always, and based on this of others, we alter our
interactions. It's part of that whole socialization thing. Again, I
don't want to make a judgment as to the quality of this system, but I do
know that it happens regularly.

Ok, that's really simplified, but I feel there's truth there.

So how does sexuality play into it? Right. Sexuality is really key to
our definition and construction of gender. For example you hear the word
"lesbian" and you think of women with power tools, flannel shirts, short
hair, and the whole bit. Or, if you see someone who fits that
description and you'll probably think lesbian. If a guy is in anyway
femme, people think gay. It gets acted out on schoolyards everywhere, to
mention nothing of the adult world.

That's why sexuality is important, at least in my mind (can you tell I'm
a budding psych/gender/queer studies guy?) Now, why are we (I) talking
about it here?

Because affinity is an excessively powerful tool for feeling comfortable
in a new community, for social change and just for a feeling of safety.
As a gay man, I want to know that there are going to be other gay people
where I'm going. It'll make me feel safe. The metaphor of a "big gay
family" isn't appropriate for a number of reasons, but there are some
aspects of that notion, that are kind of true, and I want to make sure
that there will be an affinity community when I get to Beloit, or at
least have the option of finding a kind of affinity group at Beloit.

Oh, and while sleeping with straight guys is initially thrilling, it's
ultimately trite, bad, unsatisfying, and not emotionally healthy for me.
Just joking, mostly.

Cheers,

(There. I think it covers things pretty well, and provides me with the
very beginning of something for the affinity story project.)

