================
widely synthetic
================

.. post:: 2009-02-24
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing, journal, academia

During my middle year of college, I took a class on gender and
literature where we had to write a series (10? 12?) of "journal"
entries. The assignment was to write 250-300 (**hard** boundaries) words
due by midnight on Friday during most of the weeks of the semester. And
there were other rules regarding the speed or frequency you could turn
them in that I don't remember, but there were notably few restrictions
on *what* they could be about.

A few interesting things happened. One is, that though we could write
all of them in a weekend, we never did. My roommate(s) and I would write
them while everyone was drinking on Friday night. We got pretty heroic
about how close we'd cut these to the deadline. There was even a night
when I was driving a friend to the airport (3-4 hours in the car) and I
argued for an extension through an intermediary whilst driving quite
assertively on I-90. Another is that we all got very good at editing our
writing to a limited number of words, and it's a good skill to have. But
the most important thing is that all my classmates wrote about the texts
we were reading. I wrote about, g-d knows what. Not the things we were
reading, except in loose tangential ways.

A roommate asked about if this was, an acceptable thing to do, and I
wrote the professor somewhat worried that maybe my journal entries had
strayed too far afield. In fairness, the professor's lectures had a
similar tendency to stray, as near as I could tell, but it seemed like
the thing to do.

The response was something along the lines of "Don't worry [tycho,] I
quite enjoy your widely synthetic entries. You've received credit for
all that you've submitted."

Needless to say "widely synthetic," became my new slogan. [1]_

I think my blagging style developed in that class, such as it is, which
is all sorts of scary.

I started writing this post with the intention of discussing the
`Sapir-Worf <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sapir%E2%80%93Whorf_hypothesis>`__
and programing languages. Which I think certainly qualifies as being
"widely synthetic," hence the story, but I think I'll have to save that
for next time.

Take care of yourselves, dearest readers.

.. [1]
That same semester I took another feminist/queer literature class
from the college's resident poet, who wrote in the margin of a paper
I wrote that my phrasing was "awkward, but endearingly colloquial,"
which was the slogan of this blog for quite a long time. That was one
of those semesters that just stays with you, I guess.

