=================================
Wiki Fiction and Critical Futures
=================================

.. post:: 2011-08-29
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: writing, critical-futures, science-fiction, publishing

I'm starting preliminary development on a wiki fiction project that will
eventually take over the criticalfutures.com domain, but is at
[[critical-futures]] in this wiki for an incubation period. This post is
a discussion of that history, my idea, and what I hope to accomplish.

My friend `Julia <http://mutive.livejournal.com/>`__ and I have been
corresponding on topics related to the future of publishing and genre
fiction for a few weeks. When the topic turned to wikis, I spouted off
the things I usually say about bootstrapping wiki participation (it's
hard and pretty lonely,) then I had an idea.

I read wikis, mostly wikipeida, a *lot*. For fun. I'm sure a lot of
people do this, as "getting lost in wikipedia," is a thing that happens.
You say, "I'm interested in public transit in Iran," and you get lost
clicking through various pages related to rapid transit systems in the
middle east, and then an hour or two is past and you really ought to
finish that blog post. The same thing happens on the `c2
wiki <http://c2.com/wiki/>`__ for me.

While I wish I were less compulsive about it, reading wikis is a
pleasurable reading experience, and since the format seems the web, why
not run with it? The question becomes: why are we spending so much time
figuring out the most ideal way to publish novels and short
stories--forms that developed *with* the physicality of the book--in the
digital age?

To be fair, I think there's a place for digital distribution of
paper-centric forms (periodicals and monographs,) but I doubt that in 50
years "digital fiction," will mean eBook editions of novels. People have
been making a similar point for some time about video games for a while.
Interactive fiction is definitely a part of digital fiction, but I don't
think it's the full story.

*Meanwhile back at the point...*

Here's the idea. We use wiki software to construct a website that is
written as a light-hearted encyclopedia. In the vein of `TV
Tropes <http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/HomePage>`__ meets
Wikipedia except with fictional content. But there needs to be more than
just page after page of exposition and condensed blather: my current
plan is to have a "dialogue" section, which will be bits of dialogue and
scenes published with some contextual metadata (when it happened, who
was present, where it happened.) The dialogues can then be linked to as
quasi-citations in the more conventional expository wiki pages.

So basically I'm proposing a couple of things here. First, I want to
splitting up all content into small self contained pages. This makes it
better for multiple people to edit, because editing and writing can
happen in a more parallel manner, and you don't need to agree to an
outline, or write things in any sort of sequence. Second, shorter pages
with more segmented content is easier to read for the attention limited.

Having said that, I'm not sure that collaborative, [[for-all-that-will]]
editing is really the way to go. The truth is that so few people edit
wikis relative to the number of people who *could* edit wikis, that you
might be better off having some sort of more select editorial community,
just in terms of establishing buy-in from contributors and avoiding
diffusion of responsibility. I'm undecided.

Along a similar line of thought, I'm considering releasing release
updates and new content on a regular basis (e.g. bi-weekly or monthly?)
rather than every time an edit is made. This will require some sort of
closed-development process. At the same time new wiki projects often
fail because there's little incentive to return to a wiki to "see what's
changed. Blogs, contrast are good at securing return visits.

Thoughts? Anyone interested in being on the editorial board?
([[discourse]])

