===========================
Wikis are not Documentation
===========================

.. post:: 2010-09-14
   :author: Sam Kleinman
   :tags: technical-writing, cyborg, technology

It seems I'm writing a minor series on the current status (and possible
future direction?) of technical writing and documentation efforts. Both
in terms of establishing a foundation for my own professional relevancy,
as well as in and for itself because I think documentation has the
potential to shape the way that people are able to use technology. I
started out with `Technical Writing
Appreciation </2010/09/technical-writing-appreciation/>`__ and this post
will address a few sore points regarding the use of wikis as a tool for
constructing documentation.

At the broadest level, I think there's a persistent myth regarding the
nature of the wiki and the creation of content in a wiki that persists
apart from their potential use in documentation projects. Wiki's are
easy to install and create. It is easy to say "I'm making a wiki, please
contribute!" It is *incredibly* difficult to take a project idea and
wiki software and turn that into a useful and vibrant community and
resource. Perhaps these challenges arise from the fact that wiki's
require intense stewardship and attention, and this job usually falls to
a very dedicated leader or a small core of lead editors. Also, since
authorship on wikis is diffuse and not often credited, getting this kind
of leadership and therefore successfully starting communities around
wiki projects can be very difficult.

All wikis are like this. At the same time, I think the specific needs of
technical documentation makes these issues even more prevalent. This
isn't to say that wiki software can't power documentation teams, but the
"wiki process" as we might think of it, is particularly unsuited to
documentation.

One thing that I think is a nearly universal truth of technical writing
is that the crafting of texts is the smallest portion of the effort of
making documentation. Gathering information, background and experience
in a particular tool or technology is incredibly time consuming.
Narrowing all this information down into something that is useful to
*someone* is a considerable task. The wiki process is really great for
the evolutionary process of creating a text, but it's not particularly
conducive to facilitating the kind of process that documentation must go
through.

Wikis basically "here's a simple editing interface without any
unnecessary structure: go and edit, we don't care about the structure or
organization, you can take care of that as a personal/social problem."
Fundamentally, documentation requires an opposite approach, once a
project is underway and some decisions have been made, organization
isn't the kind of thing that you want to have to manually wrestle, and
structure is *very* necessary. Wikis might be useful content generation
and publication tools, but they are probably not suited to supporting
the work flow of a documentation project.

What then?

I think the idea of a structured wiki, as presented by
`twiki <http://twiki.org/>`__ has potential but I don't have a lot of
experience with it. My day-job project uses an internally developed
tool, and a lot of internal procedures to enforce certain conventions. I
suspect there are publication, collaboration, and project management
tools that are designed to solve this problem, but I'm not particularly
familiar with anything specific. In any case, it's not a wiki.

Do you have thoughts? Have I missed something? I look forward to hearing
from you in comments!
