=================
Wiki Completion  
=================

.. post:: 2008-11-12
   :author: tychoish

Insofar as it's been a loose series, this post is a continuation of my
thoughts on `wikis <http://wtychoish.com/posts/wiki-questions/>`__ and
`hypertext <http://tychoish.com/tags/hypertext/>`__. My leading question
is "Are wiki's ever completed?" And "If so, how do we know and decide?"

This is a question that I find myself wondering about a fair deal, and I
think the answer--which I haven't come to a firm conclusion on--has a to
do with the potentials of the wiki medium.

I should jump in and say that, while
`wikipedia <http://www.wikipedia.org>`__ is a great reference, a great
tool, and an important project, because it's *the* example of "what a
wiki is" it has shaped how we think of the medium in a way that I'm not
sure is particularly useful. The biggest
`wikia <http://www.wikia.com>`__ projects are encyclopedic studies of
Star Wars and Star Trek, and while their material isn't quite suitable
for wikipedia it is certainly in the same vein and tone.

The encyclopedia form has been revitalized by the wiki, by
decentralizing the review process, democratizing (more or less) the
focus and the creation of articles, but most importantly by removing the
"space limitation" on content. Nevertheless I continue to be convinced
that wikis as a forum are capable of so much more.

On the one hand, big projects, like the kind that might be recorded in a
wiki, are never really completed as much as they are eventually
abandoned. That sounds pessimistic, but I think it's ultimately
productive: eventually a project has done what it needs to do, and what
with perfection being unattainable, the productive thing to do is move
on. The decision of when to do that is perhaps one of the most important
decisions that a creator/artist can make about a work.

But who makes that kind of decision about a wiki? Is there a point where
people just abandon a wiki? While wiki's are collaborative, that's not
to say that they don't have leadership (wikipeida's leadership
organization is epic, for example,) but who makes these kinds of
decisions?

While I'm prone taking an entire wiki as a single document, the fact
that a wiki is really a network of tightly connected texts surely has
baring on the answer to the question.

Software projects use the concept of "stable releases" and a "release
cycle" to ensure that a project can both continue to develop, and exist
as finished cycles. The `debian <http://www.debian.org/>`__ project has
it's own procedure for encouraging ongoing development of their
system/packages *and* creating rock solid stable systems.

Additionally, while most wiki's have semi sophisticated version control
systems, they for the most part don't have a concept of "branches,"
which might be helpful for implementing a stable wiki/wiki branch
system. Even `ikiwiki <http://www.ikiwiki.info>`__, which can use
systems like `git <http://www.git.or.cz>`__ to store history, doesn't
have a good display system for switching between branches/revisions.

I'm not sure--of course--if there are really good answers to these
questions. While I haven't begun to post any of them, there are a number
of projects that I've been playing with in my mind (and locally on my
own computer) that are wikis, but I've been hesitant to let them go into
the wild in part because of issues like the one discussed above. And
above all, if the wiki format is going to grow away from and
independently of the encyclopedia format, I think we need to begin
discussing questions like that.

So there. Onward and Upward!

