=================
Window Management
=================

.. post:: 2008-11-07
   :author: tychoish

OS X has been a really innovative force in personal computing. It's
highly usable, lots of different kinds of users are able to work with
it. It's compatible with lots of different standards, and it provides a
lot of tools to developers that make even the sucky third party software
pretty nice. I think if you look at Windows Vista, and the latest
versions of KDE and GNOME and some of the other open source user
interfaces, it's pretty easy to see some resonances of OS X.

More importantly, probably, it proved that Unix and Unix-like operating
systems were viable and usable for desktop use cases. While we've been
able to run BSD and Linux on home computers for years, I don't think
we've thought of Linux as being something that anyone could run without
needing a lot of technical background.

Ubuntu Linux followed this trend, pretty persuasively. Ubuntu makes
desktop unix-like experience possible. Which is a really big thing.
`Chris <http://www.cgkreality.com>`__ and I are both using Ubuntu these
days for our primary desktop computers, and it's been really interesting
to compare notes. One thing that we keep coming back to, is that despite
the fact that the *core* of the OS is *great*, the user interface (UI)
is tragic. OS X proves that it's not only theoretically possible to have
a nice UI, but it's possible to do that on a unix-like system.

As an aside, I'd bet good money that Apple has an in house version of
Aqua/Cocoa/Carbon/CoreServices (all the UI and application frameworks
that make OS X, OS X) running on the Linux Kernel. Betcha.

And by tragic, I don't mean that GNOME and KDE are unusable, but they're
flawed. GNOME doesn't use space efficiently, it's applications are
functional but not exceptional (and because of the way the GNOME project
is there aren't many 'third party' alternatives), and it feels sort of
behind the curve. It works, and it does everything that you might want
in a graphical user interface (GUI) but it's not exceptional.

Thankfully KDE fails for completely different reasons. It's attractive
and usable where GNOME isn't, and the interface is unique and
exceptional where GNOME feels stale and aged. But the applications
aren't nearly as compelling, and it suffers from having an
interface/look that's *too* flexible, such that it's pretty easy to get
a setup that looks like crap. Not to mention the fact that the kind of
rich GUIs that KDE emblimizes don't mesh particularly well with the
mostly hacker audience that Linux (and it) attracts. But that's a larger
critique of the GUI paradigm, which isn't *quite* on topic.

So where does this leave us?

I'd say the biggest shortcoming of linux systems is the window
management options. I like `Awesome <http://awesome.naquadah.org/>`__
and I think there are a bunch of people who might really like it--but
it's not for everyone, and I'm admittedly not up to date with enough of
the other options to provide a really clear analysis, but I know that
this is the *the next* big issue for open source operating systems.

I'm not sure that I know enough

