======================
Winning Your Todo List
======================

.. post:: 2012-08-10
   :author: tychoish

I kind of want to title this piece "the remains of the day," but I'll
spare you.

This week I found myself doing something sort of different with my task
list. Since I use `org-mode <http://orgmode.org>`__ to manage my todo
list, my explanation will include a bit of "introduction to org-mode,"
but I think this practice may be generally applicable regardless of the
software you use.

In `org-mode <http://orgmode.org>`__ you can take elements of an
outline--any outline--and turn it into a "todo" item, and using the
agenda feature, generate views of these tasks. This is great because you
can do planning and brainstorming in a manner that makes sense for you,
and when you're ready to start working, the list that you work from is
organized in way that's conducive to *doing things.* It's a great
system.

When you create a task, org-mode provides the ability to schedule it for
a particular day or set a deadline. You can generate agenda views
organized by day. This is how I work, most of the time. In the morning
(on the train) I open the agenda and I see about five things per day,
and I start working. The key to success, for any situation, but
particularly fragmented situations like mine, is figuring out how to
structure your projects and tasks such that there's always a task that's
"small enough" no matter how short your free time is.

This works pretty well, except sometimes, you run out of free time,
something takes longer than you'd like, or you reprioritize. The system
of scheduling tasks breaks. Solution, at the end of your work day (or
evening,) spend a moment or two going though the remains of the day's
tasks and figuring out:

- If you couldn't get to a task was it because you simply didn't have
  time, or because there was an unforeseen dependency.
  
- Which tasks can be rescheduled for another day (and what days would
  be best for this.)

- What no longer needs to be done?

At the end of the process there should be nothing left on your todo
list. Now you may be tempted to engage in a little "productivity
theater," but the goal is less to "get everything done," and more to
check in with yourself more regularly, and make sure everything is on
track. Also, I'm convinced being faced with scads of overdue tasks,
particularly tasks that have grown stale is hardly a wining strategy
either.

