==================
Writing More Again
==================

.. post:: 2014-05-18
   :author: tychoish

I haven't really written very much in the past six months or more, and
while I think I've done cool things and learned about cool things,

Let me take that back. I haven't written anything in a sustained sort of
way that *wasn't* for work. Hell, even what I've been doing for work has
been smaller and more tactical. Unfortunately you don't write books, or
book-like-objects as small tactical approaches.

So I've been trying to figure out how to get back to that. It's about
rhythm more than anything. If you approach time management for log-form
rationally, there's never enough time, so you have to make time, and
trick yourself into writing and figure out how to make a little progress
on a regular

As someone who definitely tends towards binge writing (and who doesn't)
remembering to write a little bit on a regular basis is hard and nearly
counter intuitive. So as I've been attempting to restart the writing
habit, I've been thinking about what I've done in the past that's worked
to keep up the momentum and work on projects. I've uncovered:

Reading
-------

Even more important, I think, than reestablishing a habig of writing
regularly, is restablishing the practice of reading regularly. I often
get hung up on the fact that I don't think I'm a very fast or very
through reader. But reading is quite inspiring, and I often find that
the more I read, the more I want to write.

So I've been reading the Vorkosigan novels, and it's been great.

Tracking Word Counts
--------------------

I like having some record of my progress, and I've taken different
approaches to tracking progress, mostly using word counts, over time.

When you're writing longer pieces, particularly in editors that don't
reflect word counts or page numbers in the interface, it's easy to loose
context for how much progress you're making.

Way back when, I used to record the current page and word count for all
of my projects in a note boot, and this developed into a rather
incurable tick to mash a few keys down every few sentences to check the
word count. Then, three years ago, I wrote a script to check the word
count of all my projects on a regular interval.

I stopped really using it about a year ago, because the script handled
different branches (in git) of the same project *really poorly*, and
there wasn't a good way to hack that in.

So I recently rewrote this program, and I rather like it. I'll post more
about it soon.

Physical Activity and Care
--------------------------

To *do writing* one definitely needs to spend a serious amount of time
in front of a computer typing. Unless you *really* like notebooks and
pens, there's no other way to get things written.

But you can't take this to the extreme: if *all* you do is sit in front
of your computer and stare at cursor waiting for inspiration to strike.
As people we need different kinds of focus, and different kinds of
experiences, on the small scale, to keep the generative impulses
functional. [1]_

Reading voraciously, as above, is a key part of being able to write
effectively, but other kinds of activity are also useful. When I'm not
writing, my first instinct is to try and find more time to write, but
sometimes--often--what I need more is more time for things that aren't
writing: exercise, reading, and so forth.

I've started to do yoga, as I've written before, a few times a week. I
need to also remember to set aside time for other non-writing
activities: more exercise, walks, dinners with friends, dates with my
email backlog, etc.

Onward and Upward!

.. [1]
I like the idea of *generative impulses* rather than *creative
muscles*. Writing isn't always creative, but it is, like any other
kind of production, work, and always requires energy and effort.

