======================
Writing Gay Characters
======================

.. post:: 2008-08-21
   :author: tychoish

On a recent `I Should Be Writing <http://isbw.murlafferty.com/>`__
episode `Mur Lafferty <http://murverse.com/>`__ got a question about
writing gay characters. One of the replies to *that* response (so we're
a couple degree's out,) made a suggestion along the lines of "write
characters who are interesting first and gay second," I think the actual
wording used the phrase "just happen to be gay." Mur handled this
deftly, but I think it's worthwhile to add some more to this.

Here's the biggest problem in my mind. The experience of being gay
isn't--for the most part--something that queer folks "just happen to
have/be," and to write about queer/gay characters in this way, I think
fundamentally misunderstands the experience.

I'm not sure if I could add anything to underscore that, or illuminate
that further. No matter how enlightened these times are, being gay marks
you as being different and positions you in opposition to normative
culture. Living and loving in this condition has a profound effect on
us. I'm not complaining, and I think being different has pretty good
effects, but I don't think that this makes the social situation less
relevant.

Part of the benefit of existing within a normative culture is the
ability to think about sexuality as just happening rather than being a
hard fought battle. And as more people start coming out (at younger and
younger ages), as marriage rights are won, as non-descrimination rights
are slowly gained, [1]_ it's easy to say "gay folks are just normal
folk," but I don't think that's the case at all.

--------------

The truth is that I mostly don't write gay characters as such. I've been
interested in other things, and/or interested in dealing with issues of
sexuality in different ways. But in `Station
Keeping <http://criticalfutures.com/projects/station-keeping/>`__, I
have a gay character. Part of the deal about SK is that it's set *way*
in the future. Call it 10,000 years. (I wanted to be able to tell a
19th/20th century geopolitical crisis story, and have it not be a
techno-thriller.) Anyway, so in this backdrop there's a gay couple.

And even the diehard cynic in me has to admit that in the next 8-10
*thousand* years, that this pesky business about being extranormative is
going to have to settle down, and people really won't ever swallow hard
or bat an eyebrow over queer folk. And I tell you that's incredibly
difficult to conceptualize, and so much not like what I think writing
gay characters typically is like. This isn't a question of writerly
skill, but I can't imagine being able to nail this kind of dynamic in a
contemporary or even near future world.

But maybe that's just me. Thoughts?

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!

.. [1] The fact that marriage rights seem to come before (and in front
   of) non-discrimination protections just seems like a farce to me.

