======================
Writing on Not Writing
======================

.. post:: 2006-12-03
   :author: tychoish

Well hello reader(s)!

I'm at that busy stage of the semester, where I have left to do is drink
tea and write. Of course, I'm knitting, and reading, as I'm usually wont
to do, but I haven't found very much time for blogging, at least in this
venue.

I find I've been doing more posting to forms, where I'm reasonably
certain that I have a readership. In fact, I started a thread last week
that made the school newspaper. Hopefully, someday, TealArt will
function this way, when I have enough time/purupos. In the mean time I
hope you enjoy what I can offer.

Another reason that I haven't been writing much here, is I feel, aside
from the rambling posts like this one, and the knitting discussion, most
of the things that I would write here are things that are better suited
to more formal writing. Between figuring out my interests in a more
concrete sort of way, and advancing to a stage where, all of my academic
work directly relates to things that interest me incredibly. I mean
sure, I could beat down evolutionary psychologists; but I doubt that you
all want to read a poorly cited differentiation between neuro/structural
evolution and social/cognative psychological evolution. And I'm not sure
I want to write it either.

Though not to despair. I do have a few things running through my head to
write about, and I think it might be fun to spend some time writing for
this site. It'd be a good break.

Additionally, as it's December, I'm starting to think about my annual
winter break redesign. I really rather like our current look, but there
is some work that could stand to be done. I need to work on the
del.icio.us side bar (those of you who aren't familiar with the
del.icio.us service/site/phenomena, should be check it out here), and I
think the template could use a freshening. Though I must say, I don't
tend to think of websites as being tied to design these days. Truth is,
RSS is the main way I interact with the internet these days. I suspect
that there are a couple of posts in there about Web 2.0 and RSS that I
could offer. If you're interested.

Anyway, Be well Cheers, tycho(ish)

