===============
writing writing
===============

.. post:: 2008-03-10
   :author: tychoish

A lot of writers keep blogs, and I take "writer" to mean, people whose
output (creative and/or professional) is text in cases where the writing
is an end to itself. Everyone writes--that's a symptom of an information
world--but there is a difference between journalists, novelist, and the
epidemiologist: everyone trades in words, but for a lot of people who
all work in words, the *writing* is a communicative medium and often not
meant to be read in any orderly way. Which is fine, I'm just trying to
be concrete.

Anyway, "the writer's blog" is pretty common, and I think this is really
cool. The thing about blogs is that it's largely the "people's medium,"
so having the same people's names in your feed reader and bookshelf
makes writers more accessible, more human, less distant and very much
"alive." [1]_ This is a good thing.

At the same time, an embarrassing proportion of writer's blogs are about
writing, about particular writer's experiences with the business of
writing, experiences with the practice and craft of writing. Now this
isn't surprising, as blogs and journals are outlets for half formed
ideas, thoughts, and worries. Frankly, I'm a total hack at this whole
"writing" thing, and I do this a lot. At the same time, surely, there's
a better use of 'blog readers (and writers) time.

Writers, who I respect and value, give advice that's often wildly
contradictory: "to be successful you have to have good follow through
and finish everything you start," and "don't be afraid to let a project
go if you think it's not going well," or more comically "write what you
know," paired with "write something exciting, because no one wants to
read about your middle class angst." I think you probably get the point.

Because, the secret of writing, of being a writer, is that *no one* has
a clue as to how they/we do it: every piece of advice that I've
heard--other than, I guess, "write more"--is ultimately superstition.

As I start to work on figuring out what projects I'm working on in light
of the impending changes in my life, I'm thinking about what it means to
be a writer, in a non-full time capacity. Or, similarly what it means to
be a guy with scholarly interests outside of the academy. This is sort
of bleak, I think March may really be getting to me after all.

I'm going to leave it there.

.. [1] Contra to the proclamation that "the author is dead." While I really
   like the implications of reader response theory (particularly since
   my own work in the social sciences approaches actual conversations in
   much the same way that reader response theorist approach the
   "literary" text,) as literature becomes more interactive,
   particularly in a popular context, I think some assumptions need to
   be reexamined. I mean, John Milton's authorial intent, is indeed
   *largely* irrelevant to contemporary readings, but I'm not sure the
   same thing can be said of people like Cory Doctorow, for instance.
