====================
Writing and Research
====================

.. post:: 2008-08-27
   :author: tychoish

*Ed: I so I totally meant to post this on Monday instead of `this
post <http://tychoish.com/posts/upcoming/>`__, but the wires got
crossed, and Monday's post got out early. Sorry. --ty*

The one thing that really undermines `my argument against preemptive
rewriting <http://tychoish.com/posts/un-creative-writing/>`__ is the
fact that I'm a compulsive outliner, at least `for some
things <http://tychoish.com/2008/07/un-creative-writing/>`__.

Since I'm currently in the "planning a new story/project" phase [1]_
I've been thinking about the outlining process a bit.

The difference between blogging and *writing* is that in a blog post I
maybe scribble something on a paper ahead of time, but the rhetorical
thread comes out of my fingers and on to your screens pretty much
straight through. [2]_ Blogging is very much like the research process
of fiction writing, in that it's a process of taking an idea and
figuring out what *it means,* and a lot of the possibilities in whatever
thing or situation (blog and fiction respectively). In blogging, you
pray someone's interested or you've written something that gets folks
irked enough to respond, in fiction you take all this thought work and
then write about only the things that really need writing about.

And then I realized the other day, that I write the outlines of my
stories--indeed my entire personal wiki notepad--to you, dear blog
readers. At some point years ago I got a pretty good idea of who "you"
are, and as a result generally my blog posts are all addressed to the
same positional reader (even though that reader/group has changed a bit,
and my conception of "the reader" has always been pure fantasy on my
part.) Even though I'm the only one that reads this document, all the
parts are written *to* the same person. It's all very strange.

But I digress. Research.

I think the sort of stock advice to the new writer doing research is
"don't get too caught up in planning, writing is about writing, not
planning to write," and while I *do* think that the reminder to always
keep the *writing* in mind, at the same time, there's something really
important and intense about the planning process that shouldn't be
ignored. It's a lot of work, there are a lot of words that go into
getting a story to the point where you can even think about starting to
write in ernest. In the end I think it's not so much about what you
outline or what you read up on, as the act of doing it. The time spent
in your head thinking about this world, and this idea.

Speaking of thought work, I have some to do.

Onward and `Upward <http://criticalfutures.com>`__!

.. [1] It's true that I'm not exactly *finished* with any of the existing
   stories/projects, I've realized that my slate of open projects are:
   `Station
   Keeping <http://criticalfutures.com/projects/station-keeping>`__
   (which is always ongoing, and I'm 8 episodes away from being done
   with the second season), `Trailing
   Edge <http://criticalfutures.com/projects/trailing-edge>`__ (which I
   thought was going to be a novel-scope project, but I was *so* wrong,
   and it turns out that I'm close to being done and taking a break),
   and I have another `Knowing
   Mars <http://criticalfutures.com/projects/knowing-mars/>`__ story or
   two that I'm not particularly interested in writing just yet. And
   since I'm my own writing boss, I can work on a new story.

.. [2] I write non-time sensitive entries in batches and post them
   later, mostly because I want to get blog posts going live up in the
   morning, and don't want to have to cram to get them done every
   night, and I like this rhythm, *but* the it's still very off the
   cuff, and minimally edited. But you knew *that.*

