================
Writing Pipeline
================

.. post:: 2007-09-05
   :author: tychoish

I've been back on a productivity kick these past few weeks, without much
explanation. Though my summer hasn't, exactly, taken me out side of the
academy, I'm more firmly in the in the 9-5 support aspect of an
institution, and so I don't get the delightful "manage your own
schedule" and generous sense of work that I'm used to (and are common to
college and university life), so in order to stay on the blogging and
writing bandwagon, I've had to re think the way that I organize my time
and "get things done."

For the six or so months before I started working I'd been on a morning
schedule, where I did what I could to work early in the morning, and did
things like read and knit in the afternoon. Working in the morning
disrupts this, as you might imagine. The other issue is that most
evenings aren't good for sitting down in front of a blank document and
writing: I have a hard time really getting into things, I'm not at my
prime level of alertness, and I'm trying to not completely squeeze out
relaxation time. It's good to let go every now and then.

In this vein, I've been thinking a lot about how I write, and what kind
of snags I tend to get me, so that when I do get a morning, or an
afternoon to write, I can make the best of it. And it's making sure that
I keep up with my outlining and planning. For a few weeks, I would go
hear music at an Irish pub on Tuesday nights--when no one was there--and
sit in the corner with my moleskin and fountain pen, and outline a dozen
articles, story parts, and station keeping pieces. Then I'd go home and
have plenty of things to write about for the coming week(s). It was a
great ritual, as they go, and almost without dedicating any energy to
it, I had material to work with.

When I don't have specific outlining sessions, or it gets away from me,
I find myself with good writing time, and no real clue as to what I
should be writing, and it's not that I have writers block, or that
something's wrong, but that I'm better when I have an outline or at
least notes on hand. In a weird way, it's like a first draft, except a
bit more rough. By the time I'm sitting at a computer, I like to have
been through the story, the argument once and not have to generate it on
the fly. While I can generate new stuff on the computer, the temptation
to write completely is strong.

And when I'm in the throws of drafting, I will forget to outline more,
because I like milk a momentum for as much as it's worth, and before you
know it: bam! and I'm out of things to write. So the "hack" here is to
not only make time to write, and seize writing time from the
interstitial moments in your day, but also make sure that you make
outlining a valid effort that deserves its own time. While I often have
trouble writing at night, it's much easier for me to outline at night,
and I try take advantage of this. I also make sure that outlining, in
addition to drafting and revising, are things that make it onto the
'todo' lists with equal footing. Understandably it also means that word
counts, should/do become a less useful indicator of progress, but there
are worse things.

Anyway, I hope this was useful. Be well and write in good health.

Cheers, tycho

