========================================
Writing and Producing Hyper(digital)text
========================================

.. post:: 2007-04-06
   :author: tychoish

I realized that my `schpeal last
time <http://tychoish.com/rhizome/reading-and-consuming-hyperdigitaltext/>`__
on reading hypertext sounded more like a complaint than an endorsement
of a way of writing, but I don't mean to come off like that. While I
think it's true that the advancement of technology: better portable text
display, better design practices and standards, better fonts, better
industry adoption, and so forth, would help digital text, I don't don't
think we can blame it all on the technology.

I should also say, as a disclaimer that I'm not particularly interested
in the artistic implications of hypertext. This isn't to say that they
aren't there, more that, I don't have any particular expertise or
experience aside from, of course, the ongoing experiment of
`TealArt.com <http://tychoish.com>`__, and my own experience as a writer
in several different contexts. Actually I think it's more complicated
than that, but I think that would need to be unpacked a bit more in a
different context. What drew me to this topic, is more the prospect of
paperless publishing and communicating, in concern with discussions
about `OpenAccess <http://www.earlham.edu/~peters/fos/overview.htm>`__,
a nagging interest in ergonomics, and not "oh cool, look at this new way
to be creative." *Just so you know.*

As I've been thinking about it, the discussion of "writing" or producing
hypertext is so very closely tied to the publishing of digital, and the
discussion is further muddied by

One of the things that people like a great deal about dead tree versions
is the the fixty of type on a page. I've learned to remember passages in
books by location on the page, and while the ability to search
ameliorates this slightly, this *cognitive* ability is something that I
think hypertexters would be wise to work with. While there are ways to
break up text: images, column(s) and width, generally I suspect that
people will engage the most with your text if they can absorb it in
chunks that are about 500-750 words. This works out to be 3-4 good
paragraphs, and all the usual edicts and suggestions regarding
white-space remain relevant.

I'm also concerned with the issue of citation digital text. Not only is
it hard to give precise citations for digital text, but footnotes and
what not are equally difficult to produce in an authentic and
appropriate format. I think we might be inclined to trace this at least
in part to the development of the web (and more importantly) mark up
languages (HTML/XML/etc) by people in the sciences where close textual
referencing is not particularly common. Amongst bloggers, citation is
achieved through linking, often to wikipedia (another debate for another
day), and while this model increases the interconnectivity of the 'blog
community, but forces curious readers to jump through more hoops than
perhaps is necessary, and is downright inconvenient if you're
citing/linking to a longer page. I suspect the next version of
`Markdown <http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/>`__, will have
some sort of allowance for footnotes, but I think there's still a lot of
room to think about how the practice of citing others' work gets
translated into digital formats. I like the
`MultiMarkdown <http://fletcherpenney.net/MultiMarkdown/>`__, solution,
but have ended up using the `PHP Markdown Extra
Format <http://www.michelf.com/projects/php-markdown/extra/>`__ and some
sort of XML format probably the solution. *I'm starting to realize that
so many of my problems could be solved with a much greater larger
understanding of XML and some basic Perl or Python abilities.*

But that's a diversion, and I'll bring us back around to the question of
the week: How do we, as digital text creators, produce text (words etc.)
that "work" best digitally. I definitely think manageable chunks are the
way to go, and the weblog framework definitely pushes us towards a
natural serialization, but thats as much cultural as anything. My second
series of thoughts relates to an idea of genres. The kinds of things
that seem to be the most succesful in digital formats are non-fiction
things (manuals, essays on blogs, scientific/academic articles,
correspondence etc.) and even though I think blogs might lend themselves
particularly well to fiction, there isn't a large community that I'm
aware of, though I'd love to be corrected. I think length plays a role
here, as does the general reticence to "curl up with a computer" for
pleasure reading, but I think there's something larger here. Part of it
is without a doubt the fact that there's something about the way we
think of novels (ie. the structure and story telling technique) that is
very tied to *the book*, and I also think that in a way the boundary
between truth and fiction is somewhat blurry online, because of the way
we tend to represent ourselves. Not that the same issues aren't present
in non-digital formats, but that we're more sensitive to them in digital
formats.

I hope this these fairly random thoughts can provide some inspiration.
I'd like to be more coherent, and more focused with regards to some of
the other subjects on my list to cover. I know that there are folks out
there reading this, and I also know that I'm just a guy with a domain,
and an overactive sense of opinion, so I'd love to hear what you think
about these ideas/subjects.

