============
Yarn Follies
============

.. post:: 2005-07-08
   :author: tychoish

I was about to title this entry "Yarn Tribulations" But I realized that
I've done that already. So be it.

Having blathered on sufficiently about spinning last night, I'm going to
take this opportunity to bather on about a few yarn purchase decisions.
that i've been going over.

For starters, given my current employment at a yarn shop (and the
resulting discount), I'm going to order myself a St. Moritz 2003 sweater
kit. Because the shop carries Dale Yarn, and I'm not going to get any
better deal on this one. I don't expect that I'll start knitting on this
one terribly soon, but it's worth a shot. For those of you who don't
remember for the past 8 months, or so, give or take, I've been quite
interested in a Dale of Norway, sweater called "St. Moritz 2003"
Apparently it was the official sweater of the Swedish ski team for the
2002-2003 season. Whatever, I think it just looks really cool. Probably
hideously complicated, but no matter, I'm determined. The XS size for
the adult sweater is, get this 44 inches. If the pattern for the kids
sweater isn't bad, and just looks like the adult one, then I'll do that
(the kids XL size is 41 inches, and while still a wee bit big, probably
just right for this experience). This will probably be my winter break
project, as I'm in no great rush to finish it.

Slightly higher up in the cue, is a sweater idea that I've been toying
around with for a few weeks. Inspired by Wendy's Ingridsweater, I've
wanted to take a simple color work pattern, and using sport weight, make
a sweater. I really like Wendy's idea of using one variegated/hand dye
strand and one solid strand. The store where I work caries, Cherry Tree
Hill Sock yarn, which is a slightly more economical version of the Koigu
(in my opinion). It's superwash, which doesn't bug me that much in this
case. It's still expensive, and I've run into a little stumbling block
with this yarn. According to the website, and the label the hand dyes
are 420yrds./4oz, and the solids are 370yrds/4oz. And the yarns are the
same as near as I can tell.

**Update:** *Apparently: the solids are dyed at the mill, which makes a
yarn that's slightly, but apparently unnoticeably more twisted. This
accounts for the difference in yardage.*

In competition with this are what I think are amazing yarns from Knit
Picks. Now the quandary is that, I feel like for this summer when I'm
working at this yarn store, I should buy yarn from them, because I have
opportunities to get yarns (at prices) that I'll never find again, and
Knit Picks is going to be there later so I'm not in a rush with them.
Having said that, knit picks yarn for this project, and Cherry Tree Hill
yarn price wise are about equivalent. My Knit Picks choices are also
alpaca yarns (in all or in part). On the other hand, there aren't solids
and hand-dies in the knit picks option.

First off I was thinking of this yarn, it's sport weight, and baby
alpaca is always amazing. The pattern could get lost in the fuzz, but
I'll have to get enough color contrast. I was thinking of Summer
Sky/Mystery, Fog/Granite, or Fog/ Woods. There's also This yarn which is
an alpaca, silk, merino mix. It's bulkier, but the yardage is only 14
yrds, less per 50 grams, than the sport weight alpaca. So I don't know.
I'll probably make sweaters out of both of these options.

So that's it. I have a private knitting lesson in an hour and some
chores to do before then, so I'll stay in touch.

