====================================
You Can&#8217;t Take the Sky From Us
====================================

.. post:: 2005-06-12
   :author: tychoish

There are, in my estimation a thousand clever names for a blog like
ours. Our fellow bloggers/journalists have some pretty clever names.
Rather than surrender to just calling this "TealArt" or something
painfully clever, I generally pick a name I like, and leave it up for a
few design cycles. Before, I had "The Times Of TealArt" because, mostly
I thought newspapers that took the long form "The Times of ***" rather
than the shorter, "***\ \_ Times" was an interesting construction, and
it as as a way of putting emphasis on the observed rather than the
observer, and given the nature of our medium, I think that's an
interesting statement.

But like all good things, I thought a fresh name would be fun. So for
the moment, we have the somewhat loner. "TealArt: You Can't Take the Sky
From Us." Modified of course, from the following:

Take my love, take my land Take me where I cannot stand. I don't
care, I'm still free, You can't take the sky from me. Take me out to
the black, Tell them I ain't comin' back. Burn the land and boil the
sea, You can't take the sky from me. There's no place I can be.
Since I found Serenity. But you can't take the sky from me...

Clever little ditty. Inspiring and all that. This also reflects on
TealArt's history, as a spark in the imagination of two fan boys. It's
the lyrics to the theme song for *Firefly* the short lived Joss Whedon
TV series. Anyway, I like it so there. And I think I'm going to have to
write a Morris Dance called "The Firefly", stay tuned.

So that explains that little change, I'm going to go see the new Star
Wars movie soon, finally. I don't care if it stinks really. Expect a
report on that and concerning knitting things. Cool. Cheers!

