=======================
You Must Be Crazy, Boy!
=======================

.. post:: 2006-07-31
   :author: tychoish

Hi Folks.

Sorry for being quiet the last few days. I got sucked into a minor
little void of a knitting project. There's news for you all. Here's the
scoop:

It's a little known fact that Malabrigo Yarn and HandpaintedYarn.com are
two fronts of the same operation. The side effect is that there is some
overlap in materials, though at this time no duplication of products.
That is, the same basic dyes are used, and some of the same fibers are
used (though not milled in the same way).

Anyway. So for my birthday, I got a sweaters worth (actually, probably
more than a sweater's worth.) of lace weight yarn which I fully intend
to knit I sweater out of. It comes out at 12 stitches to the inch, over
468 stitches, on US size 0 needles (The smallest commonly available
size.) It's dizzying and the progress is incredibly slow. So slow.

Did I mention that I'm attemping to do stranded color work (sometimes,
though incorrectly in this case, refered to as Fair Isle: the technique
is the same, though the patterns come not from the Hebrides but from
Turkey.) This is bordering on the insane.

In any case, my normal plan of attack is to knit sweaters with pattern
stripes running vertically. I tend to be of the opinion that this has
several advantages. For starters it's more flatering, and is really cool
looking. Additionally, it's also unusual, because the vast majority of
hand knitted things have stripes that run horizontally. It also
maximizes a number of knitting pleasures for me: once I establish a
pattern I get endless amounts of fun building on this pattern. While the
patterns repeat (and frequently patterns range from three rounds to not
more than twelve or sixteen rounds) They very rarely syncronize, such
that every round is indeed different. For example I'm working on a
sweater now with five different patterns, ranging from four rows to
eighteen stitches. The patterns synch every five inches or so (36
rounds.) So it's fun for the memory, and it suits me. So there!

Anyway. My plan for the sweater had 10 individual patterns, short row
repeats (which was a good move), but the problem is that such patterns
are very subtle and include little features which are created with only
a stitch or two. When your stitches are one 1/12th of an inch square,
this is incredibly tiny, the effect is hard to see. Now I think it would
end up looking really good in the end, the problem that arises is that
it's too hard to see the stitches to actually knit the pattern.

So my solution. Take out about 3-4 rows and knit stripes horizontally.
This means I'll have to rely on paper/my computer more, but the yarn is
so small that I'm going to wait till I can order some more suited
needles for the project. I need a breather in any case.

So I've put the sweater aside, finished a pair of socks, and gone back
to knitting things that don't make me feel like a loon.

In other news, I'm feeling more sane and less blah. I reorganized R-tron
and my files on our external hard drives. By my count, we have about 65
free gigabytes of external storage combined. This is out of a total 450
gigabytes. Now there's some duplication, but not much. This felt like an
accomplishment. I've also gotten back into doing some reading, and
feeling more productive. School will start soon, and all will be better.
I really have to find a place with a summer session from now on, I don't
cope well without the structure that being connected to the rhythm of
academic life. Ah Well. So it goes.

Cheers, Sam

