==============
Zenning Gender
==============

.. post:: 2004-06-16
   :author: tychoish

I consulted with a few of my contacts about the mystery computer
problem, and the consensus of opinion is that if a new power supply
doesn't fix this problem, we'll have to start doing ritual dances around
it. It's a good thing that one of my trusted consultants, and most of my
family are members of a ritual dance team, but honestly now. This had
better work, because I haven't a clue.

In other news, I had another one of my Anthro Gender/Sex Roles class for
the week. It was enjoyable, and I think I'm perhaps a little closer to
understanding my distain/problem with this whole anthropology thing. I
don't have the right Zen for it. I've been reading these ethnographies
about gender roles and relationships in foraging societies, and seeing
the potential and beginnings for the development of patriarchy, male
dominance, and all the ills that go along with that. But the truth is,
that these cultures have a fundamental egalitarianism (or something),
and despite idiosyncratic elements of inequality, they're naturally
egalitarian.

While not ideal, the anthropologic mode of analysis, or the lens through
which cultural critiques are made is this kind of egalitarianism. It's
very pragmatic, and I like pragmatism.

Having said that, I suppose I was expecting that this course would
contribute to feminist criticism by comparing less patriarchal societies
with our own, or by illustrating the various flavors male dominance and
patriarchy can take across cultures. But the approach I'm seeing here is
the *development of*, which is helpful, just in a different way, that I
wasn't quite expecting. The thought of course being, that if you can't
find a culture that developed differently (because there cannot be
controls for these studies,) then don't even bother to approach the
issue of deconstruction/dismantling from that perspective; but rather
from the perspective of, if we know how it developed, then maybe we can
undo.

That being said, this week we talked about Gender in Prehistory, so this
is more like a "development of culture" type of study, so in order to
(in this case) draw conclusions and be sure that your conclusions are
well founded, I think a little bit of Zen is required. But even when the
cultures aren't Neolithic, it takes a certain leap of faith to make a
connection. At least, at this moment, I'm not terribly good at making
leaps of faith like that. Maybe that's what I'm supposed to learn from
all this.

Another thing this proves, which is a concept that I think I knew, but
that I'm learning more completely now is the meaning of cultural
construction That is, in terms of the content. On a more cosmic level,
I'm learning how to be more Zen.

