==================================
Books and Information Architecture
==================================

.. contents::

(*This page is component of the sequence of pages on*
:doc:`information-debt`. *As a divergence from the* :doc:`taxonomy`
*page, this addresses some of the organizational differences between
designing and writing for books in contrast to online resources.*)

Organizational Conventions and Form
-----------------------------------

Anyone, with sufficient training and practice, can figure out how to
convey simple facts in plain language, but figuring out how to
organize simple facts in plain language into a coherent text is a much
more difficult and seldom achieved goal.

In fact, it's gotten harder since most technical materials have become
digital artifacts rather than bound volumes. There are multiple
factors, but the leading ones are:

- the conventions around publishing books are well tested and
  understood by readers and writers. While typesetting systems have
  become more advanced and publication cycles and shortened in the
  last few decades, the form remains unchanged. Even the most senior
  people writing books (of any kind,) grew up reading books like the
  ones they're writing. While this might change in the next 5-10 years
  for the next major cohort of writers, for these instincts are quite
  good.

- the space limitation in a book leads to more focused writing. With
  luck.

  Books meant that within reason it was possible to write a number of
  texts, each targeted at a specific group of users. More targeted
  books meant that any given document needs to accomplish fewer goals
  with a more dedicated audience.

  Because there is no such limitation on digital resources, and
  multiple resources often create confusion, modern resources have to
  be more different things to larger more diverse groups of users. The
  results are mixed.

  These larger more comprehensive resources are both less effective
  because they don't target audiences as well as a manual, and also
  because they are *very* hard to maintain.

To be clear, I think digital information resources are extremely
powerful and on the whole make more information available to more
people, with fewer barriers. That's a good thing and an undeniable
fact that is much lauded on this blog and elsewhere. Thinking about
some of the challenges related to generating, organizing, and
maintaining these resources is important for ensuring that they can
continue to be useful powerful in the next 5, 10, 50 or more years.

Future Directions
-----------------

Please contribute to this page if you have ideas or thoughts for
additional relevant sections.

I tend to think that the difference in publication cycles
between books and online resources to be incredibly boring, but I
think the difference in writing, practice/process/method, tooling, and
style is incredibly interesting and under-addressed.
