========================================
Information Debt and Document Management
========================================

.. contents::

Information Debt and Documents
------------------------------

Document management refers to the way that people who aren't technical
writers or engineers manage information and work output/product. This
includes of all the PDFs, Spreadsheets, Word Processing Documents,
Slide Decks, and that knowledge workers create. These documents are
frequently the main currency of information transaction inside of most
companies and working groups.

The information debt problem is very real with documents:

- Multiple versions of the same document often coexist, because it's
  difficult to clearly determine which documents are canonical.

- Search tools for documents are sub par, because
  :doc:`metadata projects <taxonomy>` are irregular and often incomplete.

- Document content is always growing and must always be growing.

- There's no good way to automate the archiving process.

- Document use is local and distributed. Document management must
  provide distributed solutions. The increasing size of local storage
  and storage in general tends to exacerbate problems related to
  distribution and document-based information debt.

Document Management Industry
----------------------------

There is an entire industry built around "document management," with
specialized tools including Alfresco, SharePoint, Documentum,
Confluence and others. The `wikipedia page on document management systems <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_management_system>`_
provides enough background for most purposes. The high level points
are as follows:

- Groups of people need to have shared information resources, which
  isn't terribly surprising, and most existing methods are
  ineffective. Without document management tools, collaboration
  happens using:

  1. Shared network storage.

     Which doesn't do very well with concurrent editing, or offline
     work (i.e. on airplanes.) Also shared drives are cestpools of
     permissions problems and disorganization.

  2. Email distribution of documents.

     Which doesn't do very well with versioning, and makes information
     dispersion difficult as people join and leave an organization.
     Furthermore, everyone must become their own personal librarian,
     which is inefficient. In general this isn't a great solution, and
     can also be expensive with some email hosting solutions.

  In many ways, this points to the best part of document management
  systems, which is that they represent a concerted effort to resolve
  information debt problems.

- Document management systems provide a host of "better" solutions to
  the collaboration, organization, and access control problems: they
  provide transparent versioning systems, they provide web interfaces
  (and things like databases, wikis, etc.), workflow, integration with
  other tools, auditing tools, and (supposedly) regulatory compliance.

- Document management systems are typically slow and have cumbersome
  systems. As a result users often try and find ways to circumvent the
  systems. Services like Box.net, Dropbox, Google Drive, provide
  tempting alternatives.

In the end, document management systems propose: "if you provide
enough tooling around document workflows, the system can prevent
information debt." While good tooling is often crucial, tooling alone
will not solve information debt. In this respect its possible to see
document management systems as neither a source or resolution to
information debt, but this view is short sighted:

- Document management systems promise to resolve information debt, but
  cannot.

- Document management systems always require some sort of migration or
  import process. Migrations are often lossy, and require significant
  manual intervention. Migrations carry their own associated
  information cost and debt potential.

Resolving Information Debt in Document Management
-------------------------------------------------

While non-technical and non-automated documents obviously accrue
information debt, preventing and ameliorating these information debts
remarkably similar to conventional documentation:

- *Use the hell out of templates*. Build systems and tool chains that do
  as much of the document production work as possible, are great for
  helping to make documentation systems sustainable and maintainable..

- Have document owners own documents and processes. Specific,
  individual people should always be able to answer for a document and
  be responsible for keeping their documents up to date and in top
  quality.

- Use :doc:`hierarchy` well to organize both the contents of the
  documents, but almost more importantly the documents in relation to
  each other.

- Reduce redundancy as much as possible. All documents and pieces of
  information, at least at the source level, should be atomic
  (i.e. topic-centered). Use good build tools to amalgamate
  information atoms.

- Use coherent indexing strategies.

- Separate source formats from output formats.

- Provide a workflow for suggesting and making changes where changes
  can happen in parallel.

- Delay any sort of data migration process and design migration
  processes to be as automated as possible. Pay back as much
  information debt in the migration process as possible.
