================================
Wiki Method and Information Debt
================================

.. contents::
    
Overview
--------

This page builds on a post from 2010 called
":doc:`/posts/wikis-are-not-documentation/`," but discusses the use of
wiki(s) in two contexts:

1. a method for producing documentation and other information
   resources.

2. a class of information repository systems.

The "wiki method" promises better information use and maintenance
because the software promises easier editing workflows that
conventional web pages and management systems *and* because wikis like
`c2 <http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?WelcomeVisitors>`_ and
`wikipedia <http://wikipedia.org/>`_ provide powerful case studies for
successful "community :doc:`authorship`" where large groups of
contributors build a generally useful information resource.

In truth there are a number of problems with using actual wikis for
larger scale information resources, given common editorial resources.
This wiki pages provides an overview for some of these challenges and
suggests possible solutions.

Challenges
----------

Distributed Authorship and Wikis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Non-digital resources (books so forth) have centralized authorship and
publication processes are known and well defined. Conventional
non-wiki digital content tends to have a similar centralized
authorship model.

By contrast *wikis decenter authorship* by making it possible for
anyone to edit a text.

**Conjecture**: By decentering authorship, wikis effectively diffuse
responsibility for a resource, and make it more difficult for
necessary tasks like proofreading, higher order organization, and
indexing. 

Typically decentered authorship makes fact checking and corrections
easier from a procedural perspective; however, distributing
factchecking to the "wiki process," tends to mean that inaccuracies
linger longer (which can reduce confidence in a resource.) 

Wiki software itself, as separate from the "wiki method," tends to be
very powerful and useful. Most wikis provide easy methods for editing
and publishing content to the web or to internal
networks.[^limitation] Having this kind of tooling is not in an of
itself a problem, except that it leads to this diffusion of
responsibility problem.

As a related, but separate, problem, most wikis provide make it
difficult to do "releases," of text, or to review content before
publishing.

[^limitation]: The one major limitation of wiki software is that it
*tends* to provide relatively poor tools for editing resources beyond
the level of the page without interacting directly with the data store
(files or the database.)

Information Rot, Maintenance and Wikis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Pages in an information resource often need to be "living:" updated
regularly, changed to reflect changes in the topic matter, product, or
the state of the art. 

If pages are not reasonably :doc:`atomic <atomicity>`, it's possible for
the information to "rot," where it looses internal consistency and
where revisions--even major revisions--must happen in a rolling
fashion. Combined with the diffusion of responsibility and the general
lack of wiki-wide tools for editing, managing, and structuring the
information resource, these problems make it difficult to use wikis
for many classes serious information resources.

While wikis themselves push you to think about content on a
page-by-page basis, to avoid information rot you *must* approach the
totality of a wiki. Typically this means, having a dedicated *person
or two* writing, editing, and organizing content. *Like any other
serious sufficiently complex "living" information resource.*

Strategy, Direction, and Wikipedia
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*`I've written about wikis a bunch on tychoish <http://tychoish.com/ikiwiki.cgi?P=wiki>`_
before, and most of the posts address some aspect of this problem. In
truth, I think my earlier have been a bit scattered.*--sam)
 
Too often people link two facts to each other: first that Wikipedia is
wildly successful, and second that Wikipedia is a wiki. To compound
this problem, the community of editors behind Wikipedia is largely
transparent to the people who read Wikipedia.

The result is that you look at Wikipedia, say "We need one of these
for our project," without realizing that there are anywhere from a
dozen to thousands of people writing, organizing, editing, and
verifying the content on Wikipedia. In truth, the amount of rote work
involved in wikipedia is astounding, and I'd venture to speculate that
the entire venture is a bit inefficient and only really viable because
it's a non-profit project and the contributors are all volunteers. 

If you're working with a small team, a team that has other projects
than maintaining a wiki, an editorial team that's a significant subset
of the user/read community, if your editors are your SMEs,[^sme] and
you start a wiki without a plan: you're probably already in trouble.

[^sme]: Subject matter experts. 

Solutions
---------

- Consider using wiki methodology without wiki software. 

  I think it's important to separate the methodology from the actual
  software. Both have their flaws and disadvantages, but there are
  some cases where wikis make good publishing systems
  (i.e. :doc:`/index` is a wiki.) Furthermore, the core of
  the wiki method (i.e.e "get everyone in a project involved in
  authorship,") has merit, even if the actual implementation in wiki
  software isn't often productive.

- Fight diffused responsibility. Provide structure, and attention to
  contribution to ensure quality, encourage efforts, and provide
  consistency.

- Approach information resources systemically and holistically.

- Use appropriate *bucketing* to provide good, manageable
  organization of pages.  
